---
title: "HYAL1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene HYAL1"
tags: ['HYAL1', 'Hyaluronidase', 'Mutations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'EnzymeReplacementTherapy']
---

# Gene HYAL1

## Information

Gene HYAL1 codes for a hyaluronidase enzyme which is responsible for the degradation of hyaluronic acid. The gene is located at 3p21.3 and has an alias name of Hyal-1. External IDs for the gene include HGNC:5023, NCBI Entrez: 3373, Ensembl: ENSG00000120129, OMIM: 607071, and UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q12794.

## Mutations

There are several AA (amino acid) mutations listed for this gene, including p.A46T, p.R78G, p.R203H, p.E238K, and p.I261T, among others. These mutations have been associated with various disorders such as mucopolysaccharidosis type IX and Schindler disease type IX. The mutations are listed with their corresponding dbSNP IDs in the NCBI database.

## Related Diseases

Mutations in the HYAL1 gene have been associated with several disorders such as mucopolysaccharidosis type IX, Schindler disease type IX, and metastatic prostate cancer. These diseases are all characterized by the buildup of hyaluronic acid in the body due to decreased activity of the HYAL1 enzyme.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment for these diseases varies depending on the severity of the symptoms and the specific disorder. In some cases, enzyme replacement therapy may be used to supplement the missing enzyme. However, the prognosis for these diseases is generally poor, particularly as they are often diagnosed in the later stages of the disease progression.

## Drug Response

There is currently no specific drug treatment available for disorders associated with HYAL1 mutations. However, research is ongoing to develop new treatments and drug therapies for these diseases.

## References

- "HYAL1 - Hyaluronidase-1." Protein - HYAL1 - Hyaluronidase-1 - Homo sapiens (Human) - HYAL1 gene & protein.
- "HYAL1 hyaluronidase 1 [Homo sapiens (human)] - Gene - NCBI." National Center for Biotechnology Information, U.S. National Library of Medicine.
- "HYAL1 Gene - GeneCards | HYAL1 Protein | HYAL1 Antibody." GeneCards | Weizmann Institute of Science.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**