---
title: "SLC31A1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene SLC31A1"
tags: ['SLC31A1', 'CopperTransporter', 'MenkesDisease', 'OccipitalHornSyndrome', 'CopperDeficiency', 'CopperSupplementation', 'GeneticMutations', 'TreatmentOptions']
---

## Information about gene SLC31A1

### Gene Position, Pathology, and Function

SLC31A1 is located on chromosome 9q31.2 and encodes a membrane protein known as copper transporter 1 (CTR1). This protein is found on the plasma membrane of cells and plays a crucial role in copper uptake and distribution within the body. Mutations in SLC31A1 have been linked to copper metabolism disorders such as Menkes disease and occipital horn syndrome.

### Gene Information

* Function: Copper transport and uptake
* External IDs: HGNC:10953, NCBI Entrez:1317, Ensembl:ENSG00000137736, OMIM:603529, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P35670
* Aliases: COPT1, CTR1, DCT1, SLC31A1 

### Mutations

* AA Mutation List: [Click here](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/P35670#mutation))
* Mutation Type: Missense, Nonsense, Frameshift, Splice site
* dbSNP IDs: rs73335760, rs118192597, rs199706702, rs114926524

### Somatic SNVs/InDels

* dbSNP IDs: rs587779041, rs369474369, rs767806261, rs587779041, rs561936376, rs767806261

### Related Disease

Mutations in SLC31A1 have been linked to copper metabolism disorders such as Menkes disease and occipital horn syndrome. Menkes disease is a rare X-linked disorder characterized by a defect in copper transport that leads to copper deficiency and subsequent neurological and developmental abnormalities. Occipital horn syndrome is a milder form of Menkes disease that is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern.

### Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no cure for Menkes disease or occipital horn syndrome. However, early diagnosis and treatment can significantly improve outcomes. Treatment often involves copper supplementation, although the effectiveness of this approach may depend on the severity of the disease.

### Drug Response

There is limited information on drug response related to SLC31A1 mutations. However, copper supplementation is often used as a treatment for copper metabolism disorders.

### Related Papers

* [Mutations in ATP7A and SLC31A1-Genes Encoding Menkes Disease and Copper Transport Proteins, respectively-are Associated with HIST1H1E Epimutations in Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Patients](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccell.2018.09.014))
* [Copper upregulates the expression of the copper transporter genes, CTR1 and DMT1, in human kidney cells](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.taap.2010.11.015))
* [The copper transporter CTR1 contributes to cisplatin uptake by renal tubular cells during cisplatin nephrotoxicity](https://doi.org/10.1152/ajprenal.00447.2017))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**