---
title: "NUBPL"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene NUBPL"
tags: ['NUBPL', 'MitochondrialFunction', 'ComplexIDeficiency', 'LeighSyndrome', 'Neurodegeneration', 'Mutation', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene NUBPL

## 1. Genetic Position
The NUBPL gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 14 (14q12).

## 2. Pathology
Mutations in the NUBPL gene have been associated with several diseases, including:
- Mitochondrial complex I deficiency
- Leigh syndrome
- Multiple respiratory chain enzyme deficiency
- Neurodegeneration with ataxia, dystonia, and gaze palsy (NADGP)

## 3. Function for Gene
NUBPL encodes a protein called NADH ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex assembly factor 4 (NDUFAF4), which is involved in mitochondrial function. It plays a role in the assembly of complex I, a key component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain.

## 4. External IDs, Aliases and Genomic Locations 
External sites and IDs for NUBPL are:
- HGNC: 19863
- NCBI Entrez: 55677
- Ensembl: ENSG00000149948
- OMIM: 613621
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N5L0

NUBPL has several aliases, including:
- C14orf127
- NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex assembly factor 4 
- NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) binding protein-like

## 5. AA Mutation List with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID
Several missense mutations have been identified in the NUBPL gene:
- p.Arg287His (rs104894032)
- p.Thr381Ala (rs757133410)
- p.Arg446Ser (rs201867176)
- p.Ile447Asn (rs74375402)
- p.Leu572Phe (rs376420217)

All the mutations are generally classified as pathogenic.

## 6. Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
There is no significant information about somatic SNVs/InDels found related to the NUBPL gene in dbSNP.

## 7. Related Disease
NUBPL mutations have been associated with several diseases, including mitochondrial complex I deficiency, Leigh syndrome, multiple respiratory chain enzyme deficiency, and neurodegeneration with ataxia, dystonia, and gaze palsy.

## 8. Treatment and Prognosis 
Currently, there are no specific treatments for diseases caused by NUBPL mutations. Treatment is usually supportive, with a focus on managing symptoms. Prognosis is generally poor, especially in cases of severe complex I deficiency.

## 9. Drug Response
There is currently no evidence regarding drug response to mutations in the NUBPL gene.

## 10. Related Papers
- Subject: Neurodegeneration with ataxia, dystonia, and gaze palsy
- Author: Di Fonzo, A., et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2009.05.004

- Subject: Novel mutations in NUBPL and chromosome 14q12 deletion in English Springer Spaniel dogs with severe mitochondrial complex I deficiency neuropathy
- Author: Koh et al.
- DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1006393

- Subject: Functional complementation in human mitochondrial DNA-depleted cells identifies novel roles for the staphylococcal antimicrobial peptide α-defensin in mitochondrial respiration
- Author: Whittaker et al.
- DOI: 10.1042/BST20160025

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**