---
title: "KRT16"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: KRT16"
tags: ['KRT16', 'PachyonychiaCongenita', 'GeneticMutation', 'ProteinFunction', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'AutosomalDominant', 'SkinDisorder', 'NailDisorder']
---

## Gene: KRT16
---

### Function:
KRT16 gene provides instructions for making a protein called Keratin 16. The protein Keratin 16 is involved in the formation of hair, skin and nails.

### External IDs:
- HGNC: 6449
- NCBI Entrez: 3869
- Ensembl: ENSG00000186847
- OMIM: 148067
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P08779

### AA Mutation List with dbSNP ID:
- p.Val164Phe - rs61756294
- p.Asp194_Tyr198delinsTer - rs61756300

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- c.389dupC - rs1564323216
- c.502C>T - rs144722815

### Pathology:
Mutations in KRT16 gene can cause a rare disorder called pachyonychia congenita (PC), which is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. PC affects the nails, skin, and mouth, and may also cause cysts, calluses, and/or blisters to form on the feet and/or hands.

### Related Disease:
Pachyonychia Congenita

### Treatment and prognosis:
There is no effective cure for pachyonychia congenita currently but symptomatic treatment can be given. This may include topical agents and/or removal of thickened nails and calluses. The prognosis for this condition varies, and depends on the specific symptoms, as well as the severity of the disease.

### Drug Response:
The drug response for this disease is not well established.

### Related Papers:
- Subject: Pachyonychia Congenita
- Author: McLean, W. H. I.
- DOI: 10.1038/sj.icb.7100187

- Subject: Clinical and pathologic findings of pachyonychia congenita
- Author: Choate, K.A.
- DOI: 10.1016/S0190-9622(03)02725-X

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**