---
title: "COQ5"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for COQ5"
tags: ['COQ5', 'UbiquinoneBiosynthesis', 'PrimaryCoenzymeQ10Deficiency', 'MitochondrialDisease', 'Treatment', 'GeneticMutation', 'NephroticSyndrome', 'Antioxidants']
---

# Gene Information for COQ5

## General Information
COQ5 gene encodes protein ubiquinone biosynthesis protein COQ5. It is located on chromosome 14q24.3. The gene has several aliases, including C14orf169, ADCK4, HCA22, and PDSS3. The function of the COQ5 gene is vital as it encodes a protein that plays a crucial role in the ubiquinone (coenzyme Q) biosynthesis pathway.

## External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location
- HGNC: HGNC:16948
- NCBI Entrez: 55052
- Ensembl Gene: ENSG00000100677
- OMIM: 614654
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y2Z8

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Pro95Ser (rs200327240)
- p.Ala386Val (rs863225886)
- p.Tyr140Cys (rs863225888)
- p.Ala193Gly (rs863225884)
- p.Thr11Ile (rs863225885)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs778293883
- rs758482287
- rs773611778
- rs750617888
- rs752094143

## Pathology and Function
Mutations in COQ5 gene are known to cause primary coenzyme Q10 deficiency, which is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by nephrotic syndrome, encephalopathy, myopathy, cerebellar ataxia, seizures, and sensorineural hearing loss. COQ10 is essential for mitochondrial function, and its deficiency impairs ATP production and oxidative phosphorylation. Consequently, various cells and organ systems may be affected.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for primary coenzyme Q10 deficiency. Treatment aims to alleviate symptoms, improve energy metabolism, and prevent further mitochondrial damage. Supplementation with coenzyme Q10 and antioxidants could alleviate some symptoms, improve mitochondrial function, and slow disease progression.

## Drug Response
Several studies have reported that patients with primary coenzyme Q10 deficiency may respond to treatment with coenzyme Q10, creatine, or B vitamins. However, responses to these therapies vary, and the optimal treatment regimen for individual patients is yet to be established.

## Related Papers
- López-Martín, J.M., Salviati, L., Trevisson, E. et al. Missense mutations in COQ5 cause isolated nephrotic syndrome in humans. Nat Genet 47, 38–43 (2014). [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.3133.)
- Quinzii, C.M. & Hirano, M. Primary and secondary CoQ(10) deficiencies in humans. Biofactors 37, 361–365 (2011). [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/biof.181.)

###### Created by [AI], December 2021.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**