---
title: "DNAJC6"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for DNAJC6 "
tags: ['DNAJC6', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'Endocytosis', 'GeneticMutations', 'DrugResponse', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene Information for DNAJC6 

## Genetic Position
The gene DNAJC6 is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 at position 31.3 (1q31.3).

## Pathology
Mutations in the DNAJC6 gene have been linked to multiple neurological disorders including Parkinson's disease, autosomal dominant parkinsonism (PARK9), and juvenile-onset parkinsonism.

## Function
The DNAJC6 gene encodes for a protein called Auxilin, which plays an important role in clathrin-mediated endocytosis. This pathway is responsible for the uptake of external molecules and proteins into cells.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 2929
- NCBI Entrez: 9829
- Ensembl: ENSG00000116774
- OMIM: 611203
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O75147

## AA Mutation List
- p.Lys183Glu (rs74315456)
- p.Asp290Asn (rs56399824)
- p.Leu855Pro (rs376280164)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.1255G>A (rs76868831)
- c.1681C>A (rs75494557)

## Related Diseases
- Parkinson's disease 
- Autosomal Dominant Parkinsonism 
- Juvenile-onset Parkinsonism

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for Parkinson's disease or parkinsonism, however, symptoms can be managed with medications such as levodopa. The prognosis for these conditions varies depending on the individual and the severity of their symptoms.

## Drug Response
Individuals with mutations in the DNAJC6 gene may respond differently to certain medications used to treat Parkinson's disease. It is important for healthcare providers to be aware of genetic mutations that may impact drug responses.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Mutations of the Auxilin Gene (DNAJC6) Are Associated with Parkinson Disease
- Author: Xinbo Ai and others
- DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000228238.20838.e7

- Subject: A Novel DNAJC6 Mutation Associated with Parkinson Disease in a Chinese Population
- Author: G. Wang and others
- DOI: 10.1007/s12031-017-0932-1

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**