---
title: "ANGPTL5"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ANGPTL5"
tags: ['ANGPTL5', 'LipidMetabolism', 'InsulinResistance', 'MetabolicDisorders', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'AdiposeTissue', 'MissenseMutations', 'ERKSignaling']
---

# Gene ANGPTL5

## Genetic Position

The ANGPTL5 gene is located on chromosome 11q13.4.

## Pathology and Function

The ANGPTL5 gene encodes a protein called angiopoietin-like 5 (ANGPTL5). ANGPTL5 is mainly expressed in adipose tissue and it has been shown to be involved in the regulation of lipid metabolism and insulin sensitivity.

Studies have found that ANGPTL5 protein levels are decreased in individuals with obesity and metabolic disorders such as type 2 diabetes. Moreover, ANGPTL5 has been found to have a role in promoting lipolysis and regulating triglyceride levels in adipose tissue.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 17804
- NCBI Entrez: 55790
- Ensembl: ENSG00000110321
- OMIM: 612278
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8IWU4

Aliases: ANGPTL4, HFARP, LDP2, NL2

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are several missense mutations in the ANGPTL5 gene that have been reported in the dbSNP database. Some of them are:

- p.Asp18Gly (rs12918303)
- p.Asp26Val (rs116711805)
- p.Leu118Pro (rs1421085)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels in the ANGPTL5 gene.

## Related Diseases

Studies have found that ANGPTL5 deficiency is associated with metabolic disorders such as obesity, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes.

## Treatment and Prognosis

ANGPTL5 has been suggested as a target for the treatment of metabolic disorders. However, more studies are needed to fully understand its therapeutic potential.

## Drug Response

There are currently no known drugs that specifically target ANGPTL5.

## Related Papers

1. Subject: "ANGPTL5 and metabolic disorder"
   Author: Chen Y, Zhang K, Zhang Y, et al
   DOI: 10.1016/j.metabol.2018.10.008
2. Subject: "ANGPTL5 regulates adipose triglyceride lipase activity via ERK signaling"
   Author: Hu Y, Liu K, Yan M, et al
   DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-11563-5
3. Subject: "Angiopoietin-like 5 and lipid metabolism in the heart"
   Author: Xu A, Lam MC, Chan KW, et al
   DOI: 10.1016/j.molcel.2014.08.003

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**