---
title: "PEG3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene PEG3"
tags: ['PEG3', 'ImprintedGene', 'TumorSuppressor', 'CancerProgression', 'BreastCancer', 'LungCancer', 'ProstateCancer', 'Survivin']
---

## Gene PEG3

### Genetic Position
Gene PEG3 is located on chromosome 19p13.2, from base pair 7,902,579 to base pair 7,935,015.

### Pathology and Function
PEG3 (Paternally Expressed Gene 3) is an imprinted gene and is paternally expressed. This gene is associated with several functions, including regulation of the cell cycle, embryonic development, and regulation of maternal behavior. Also, it suppresses cancer cell growth by preventing the cell cycle progression of cancer cells, indicating its function as a tumor suppressor gene. 

### External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs: HGNC: 8808, NCBI Entrez Gene: 5178, Ensembl: ENSG00000105300, OMIM: 601483, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96T87 
- Aliases: ZNFPEG, ZPEG, PEG1/MEST1 Gene Family Member, Paternally Expressed 3, Protein PEG3, Gene Trap PEG3.

### AA Mutation List, Mutation Type, and dbSNP ID
- No mutations associated with PEG3 reportedly. 

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported.

### Related Diseases
No diseases have been directly associated with mutations or polymorphisms in PEG3. However, there are studies that relate PEG3 function to cancer progression in breast, lung and prostate cancers.

### Treatment and Prognosis
The precise impact of PEG3 on treatment and prognosis is not well established. A few preclinical studies indicated its role as a tumor-suppressor, however, further detailed research is essential to evaluate its clinical implication in various cancers.

### Drug Response
There is no information available related to drug response.

### Related Papers
- **Title:** PEG3 Suppresses Tumor Growth By Inhibiting Cancer-Associated Fibroblasts In Lung Cancer.
  - **Author(s):** Li X, He X, Wang Y, Zhao Y, Yu S, Qin H, Bai L, Man D, Zheng L, Wei Y, Zhang X, Kan Q, Zhao RC.
  - **DOI:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-18-1242)
- **Title:** PEG3 Inhibits the Proliferation and Invasion of Breast Cancer Cells by Down-regulating the Expression of Survivin
  - **Author(s):** Li Y, Zhang B, Yan F, Lv J, Qiu F, Yao Q, Wu D, Yang Y, Yao H.
  - **DOI:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.3389/fonc.2020.00734.)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**