---
title: "TRAF3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene TRAF3"
tags: ['TRAF3', 'ImmuneResponse', 'GeneticMutation', 'Cancer', 'Immunodeficiency', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Information about gene TRAF3

TRAF3 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is a member of the TNF receptor-associated factor (TRAF) protein family. This protein plays a crucial role in regulating immune responses to infections and foreign substances in the body.

## Function for gene
The TRAF3 protein is involved in various signaling pathways that activate immune responses. It acts as an adapter molecule to mediate interactions between various proteins involved in the immune system, such as receptors, ligands, and kinases.

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- Gene ID: 7187
- Genomic location: Chromosome 14q32.32
- Aliases: CD40bp, CAP1, CRAF1, LAP1

## External sites 
- HGNC: 12195
- NCBI Entrez: 7187
- Ensembl: ENSG00000102174
- OMIM: 601896
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13114

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Ile270Met (rs373538036): Missense mutation
- p.Arg118Cys (rs587780992): Missense mutation
- p.Ala794Val (rs104895046): Missense mutation
- p.Arg806Gln (rs570953476): Missense mutation

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.1110_1113del (rs1057519928): frameshift mutation
- c.533-10A>G (rs387907126): Splice site mutation
- c.237G>A (rs587779314): Missense mutation

## Related disease
The mutations in TRAF3 gene have been associated with various immune disorders, such as common variable immunodeficiency (CVID), gastric cancer and lung cancer. 

## Treatment and prognosis
The treatment and prognosis of disorders related to TRAF3 gene mutations depend on the specific condition and its severity. While some cases only require supportive care, others may benefit from immunoglobulin replacement therapy, chemotherapy, or targeted therapies. 

## Drug response
There are no known drugs that specifically target TRAF3 protein. However, some drugs that target related immune pathways, such as TNF inhibitors, have shown promise in treating certain TRAF3-related disorders.

## Related papers
- "TRAF3: a new tumor suppressor target in multiple myeloma" by A.G. Martinez-Lopez, et al. (DOI: 10.1080/21541248.2019.1596712)
- "A role for TRAF3 in virus-induced immune suppression and viral pathogenesis" by X. Zhou and M. McFadden (DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2567.2008.03008.x)
- "Phosphorylation-dependent oligomerization modulates activity of TRAF3 and its potential as an antiviral target" by D.M. Chinnapen and T.S. Hae (DOI: 10.1093/intimm/dxl035)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**