---
title: "SMARCAL1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about SMARCAL1 gene"
tags: ['SMARCAL1', 'GeneFunction', 'SIOD', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about SMARCAL1 gene

## Genetic Position
SMARCAL1 gene is located on chromosome 2 at position 2q35.

## Pathology
Mutations in SMARCAL1 gene have been associated with causing a genetic disorder called Schimke immuno-osseous dysplasia (SIOD). SIOD is a multisystem disorder that affects bone development and the immune system.

## Function for gene
SMARCAL1 gene encodes a protein that belongs to the family of SWI/SNF-related matrix-associated actin-dependent regulator of chromatin (SMARC) proteins. SMARCAL1 protein regulates DNA replication and repair by acting as a DNA annealing helicase.

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- HGNC ID: 11176
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 50485 
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000060718
- OMIM ID: 606622
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9NX25
- Aliases: HEL308, HARP, MARcal1, SIOD, SNF2, SWI, Yeast, helicase-like transcription factor

## AA mutation List and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.974T>C (p.Leu325Pro) - rs80338668
- c.998T>C (p.Leu333Pro) - rs80338669
- c.1001G>T (p.Gly334Trp) - rs80338670
- c.1241G>A (p.Ala414Thr) - rs1057519112
- c.1490 G>T (p. Arg497Leu) - rs765419270

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic mutations or InDels found in SMARCAL1 gene.

## Related Disease
SMARCAL1 mutations are associated with Schimke immuno-osseous dysplasia (SIOD). SIOD is a rare multisystem disorder that affects bone, the immune system, and increases the risk of stroke.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment for SIOD, and the prognosis varies depending on the severity of the symptoms. In many cases, SIOD is fatal in early childhood or adolescence.

## Drug Response
There is no known drug treatment for SIOD.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Novel SMARCAL1 mutations in SIOD: an updated database for the mutation analysis via HGMD and GenBank.
  - Author: Yang W, et al.
  - DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12881-015-0198-9)

- Subject: Rationalization of the effects of mutations on a SMARCAL1 ATPase domain in Schimke immuno-osseous dysplasia.
  - Author: Hughes CR, et al.
  - DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M117.791559)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**