---
title: "EXTL3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene EXTL3"
tags: ['EXTL3', 'GeneticInformation', 'HeparanSulfate', 'MultipleSynostosesSyndrome', 'ColorectalCancer', 'Osteoarthritis', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene EXTL3

## Genetic Position
Gene Name: EXTL3\
Chromosome: 2\
Genetic Coordinates: 2q12.1

## Pathology
EXTL3 mutations have been associated with a range of diseases including multiple synostoses syndrome 2, osteoarthritis, and colorectal cancer.

## Function
EXTL3 encodes an enzyme that participates in the biosynthesis of heparan sulfate and heparin, which are important components of the extracellular matrix and are involved in diverse biological processes such as development, angiogenesis, and cancer.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 3499
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 2130
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000115112
- OMIM ID: 608312
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q92847
- Aliases: HS6ST3, MSTP083

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg213Cys (rs143474249)
- p.Arg372Gln (rs76539022)
- p.Arg689Trp (rs137852688)
- Missense mutations

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs554281538
- rs193025425
- rs376713663
- rs762082083

## Related Disease
- Colorectal Cancer
- Multiple synostoses syndrome 2
- Osteoarthritis

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment for EXTL3 mutations, and management strategies are guided by the specific disease associated with the mutation. Prognosis depends on the specific disease and severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is limited information on drug response specific to EXTL3 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Analysis of EXT1 and EXT2 genes in patients with multiple osteochondromas in Argentina: First report
- Author: Valeria Vargas, et al.
- DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2017.6826

- Subject: Low and high-grade endometrial stromal sarcoma: A National Cancer Database study
- Author: Renzo Corvigno, et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2020.12.006

- Subject: Whole-exome sequencing identifies rare variants linked to congenital pouch colon
- Author: Jayant P. Palve, et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2020.09.050

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**