---
title: "MUSK"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene MUSK"
tags: ['GeneMUSK', 'CongenitalMyasthenicSyndrome', 'NeuromuscularJunction', 'ReceptorTyrosineKinase', 'AnticholinesteraseMedication', 'ImmunosuppressiveAgents', 'CholinergicAgonists', 'DrugResponseVariability']
---

# Gene MUSK

## Information

### Gene Position

- Chromosome: 9
- Start position: 77,451,666 bp
- End position: 77,481,267 bp

### Pathology

MUSK gene mutations are associated with different types of congenital myasthenic syndrome (CMS).

### Function

MUSK encodes a protein that is a member of the receptor tyrosine kinase family and acts as a muscle-specific kinase. It plays an essential role in the formation and maintenance of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) by stimulating acetylcholine receptor clustering and subsequent phosphorylation.

### External IDs and Aliases

- Gene ID: 4593
- NCBI Entrez: NM_005592
- Ensembl: ENSG00000107169
- HGNC: 7530
- OMIM: 601296
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O15146
- Aliases: CMS1D; MUSKMYA

### AA mutation list, mutation type and dbSNP ID

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|----------|
| A473fs*60    | Frameshift    | rs869320693 |
| F518C        | Missense      | rs35732153  |
| L963P        | Missense      | rs137853707 |
| A462V        | Missense      | rs387906700 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no somatic SNVs/InDels identified in MUSK gene.

### Related Disease

- Congenital myasthenic syndrome (CMS)

### Treatment and prognosis

Treatment options for CMS includes anticholinesterase medication, immunosuppressive agents and, in some cases, cholinergic agonists. The prognosis depends on the type of CMS and the severity of symptoms.

### Drug Response

Treatments have significant inter-individual variability in drug response; regular monitoring and dose adjustments can optimize drug response.

## References

1. Chevessier, F., et al. "Molecular diversity of CMS pathogenic variants in neuromuscular junction acetylcholine receptor, rapsyn and agrin genes." Journal of neurogenetics 33.1-2 (2019) 63-74. DOI: 10.1080/01677063.2019.1582604
2. Finlayson, S. "MUSK-related congenital myasthenic syndrome." Rare Neurological Diseases Community 9.1 (2018). DOI: 10.20471/1434-547X-9-S1-17

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**