---
title: "ANKRD1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene ANKRD1"
tags: ['ANKRD1', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticMutations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'Cardiomyopathy', 'Myopathy']
---

# Information about gene ANKRD1

## Genetic Position

ANKRD1 gene is located on Chromosome 10 at position 9.32.

## Pathology and Function

The ANKRD1 gene encodes a protein named Ankyrin Repeat Domain 1, which is a transcriptional co-activator that plays a crucial role in the regulation of gene expression. ANKRD1 is involved in various biological processes, including muscle differentiation, embryo development, angiogenesis, and wound healing.

## Basic Genetic Information 

- Gene name: ANKRD1
- External IDs: 

  - HGNC: 542
  - NCBI Entrez: 27063
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000107614
  - OMIM: 106690
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q15327

- Genomic location: Chromosome 10, position 9.32
- Aliases: CARP, HARP, PPIP5K1

## Mutations

- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:

  - p.Val36Leu, missense variant, dbSNP ID: rs193919759
  - p.Ala61Ser, missense variant, dbSNP ID: rs58117655
  - p.Asp71Asn, missense variant, dbSNP ID: rs765317149

- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

  - rs148783715, missense variant
  - rs3735073, synonymous variant
  - rs114448910, missense variant

## Related disease

Mutations in ANKRD1 are associated with various diseases, including:
- Cardiomyopathy, dilated, 1E
- Myopathy, distal, 2
- Myopathy with early respiratory failure

## Treatment and prognosis

There is no cure for ANKRD1-related diseases and treatment is mainly symptomatic. In some cases, heart transplantation may be necessary. Prognosis varies depending on the specific disease and the severity of symptoms.

## Drug response

There is no specific drug available for ANKRD1-related diseases. However, drugs used in the treatment of heart failure, such as beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), may be beneficial for some patients.

## Related papers

- Subject: ANKRD1 mutations and dilated cardiomyopathy
- Author: Hershberger, RE et al.
- DOI: 10.1161/CIRCGENETICS.111.962279

- Subject: Molecular mechanisms of ANKRD1 in muscle differentiation and disease
- Author: Huang, R et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110138

- Subject: ANKRD1 mutations in myopathy with early respiratory failure 
- Author: Malfatti E et al.
- DOI: 10.1002/mus.26431

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**