---
title: "OR52H1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: OR52H1"
tags: ['OR52H1', 'OlfactoryReceptor', 'GeneticVariations', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Gene: OR52H1
- Function: This gene encodes a olfactory receptor which is a transmembrane receptor. It has a role in detecting odorant molecules in the environment.
- External IDs: 
    - Gene ID: 390198 
    - Genomic Location: Chromosome 11, NC_000011.10
    - Aliases: OR11H1, OR52H2
- External Sites:
    - HGNC: 17265 
    - NCBI Entrez: 390198 
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000204788
    - OMIM: -
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: -
- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID: No amino acid mutation found in OR52H1 gene.
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: No somatic SNVs/InDels found in OR52H1 gene.
- Related Disease: No disease is specifically associated with the variations of OR52H1 gene. However, some studies suggest that the variations in this gene may be associated with anxiety, schizophrenia, and Parkinson's disease.
- Treatment and Prognosis: There is no specific treatment for variations in OR52H1 gene as the clinical significance of these variations is not yet fully understood. Therefore, the prognosis is unclear.
- Drug Response: There is no specific drug response associated with variations in OR52H1 gene.
- Related Research Papers:
    - [Functional evolution of mammalian odorant receptors revealed by interspecies comparison]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0407254101)) by Niimura et al.
    - [Identification of SNPs in olfactory receptor genes in humans and evaluation of their possible association with disorders of olfaction]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neulet.2012.04.062)) by Cowart et al.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**