---
title: "ALK"
date: 2023-04-12 00:00:00
summary: "## Information about Gene ALK"
tags: ['# Information about Gene ALK']
---

## Information about Gene ALK

**Genetic Position:** ALK gene is located on chromosome 2 at the arm q of region 23.1.

**Pathology:** ALK gene abnormalities are associated with many types of cancer such as lung cancer, neuroblastoma, lymphoma, and others. Gene fusion involving ALK with other chromosomal regions has been observed in various cancers.

**Function:** ALK (anaplastic lymphoma kinase) is a receptor tyrosine kinase that plays a crucial role in the development of the nervous system. It regulates cell growth, proliferation, differentiation, and survival.

**External IDs:**
- HGNC: 417
- NCBI Entrez: 238
- Ensembl: ENSG00000171094
- OMIM: 105590
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UM73

**Aliases:** CD246, NBLST3

**AA Mutation List:**
- Mutation Type: Missense
- AA Change: p.Val158Met
- dbSNP ID: rs121913357

**Somatic SNVs/InDels:**
- Variant Type: Missense
- AA Change: p.Glu1385Lys
- dbSNP ID: rs767372239

**Related Disease:** Aberrant ALK signaling is associated with cancer. The ALK gene is mutated or overexpressed in several types of cancer such as neuroblastoma, lung cancer, and lymphoma.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** Treatment options for ALK-positive cancers include ALK-inhibitors like crizotinib, ceritinib, and alectinib. These inhibitors target the ALK kinase domain and inhibit cell growth. The prognosis for ALK-positive cancers varies based on the type and the stage of the cancer.

**Drug Response:** ALK inhibitors have shown good response rates in patients with ALK-positive cancers. However, resistance to these inhibitors may develop over time, leading to disease progression.

**Subject:** Genetic Information Analyst
**Author Name:** John Doe
**DOI Links:** 
- [PMID: 28087334](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28087334/)
- [PMID: 29526334](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29526334/)
- [PMID: 33459715](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33459715/)