---
title: "CSF1R"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene CSF1R"
tags: ['CSF1R', 'GeneticInformation', 'Pathology', 'Function', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

## Information about gene CSF1R

### Genetic Position
- The gene CSF1R is located on chromosome 5.
- The location of the gene is 5q33.2.

### Pathology
- Mutations in the CSF1R gene have been associated with a variety of disorders.
- It is linked with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), a rare brain infection that can be fatal.
- It is also associated with disorders related to bone remodeling and development, as well as immunodeficiency.

### Function 
- The CSF1R gene encodes a protein known as Colony Stimulating Factor 1 Receptor (CSF1R).
- The protein regulates the differentiation and survival of macrophages and other immune cells.
- It also plays a vital role in the development of bones and the central nervous system.

### External IDs
- HGNC: 2439
- NCBI Entrez: 1436
- Ensembl: ENSG00000184376
- OMIM: 164770
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P07333

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Asp680Asn (rs2228262)
- p.Thr618Ile (rs2228261)
- p.Ala794Thr (rs143154962)
- p.Asp802Val (rs143154961)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.1961A>G (rs3765738)
- c.1984C>T (rs3708175)

### Related Disease
- Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML)
- Osteopetrosis
- Rheumatoid arthritis
- Breast cancer
- Acromegaly

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment for PML involves controlling the symptoms and underlying condition.
- Bone marrow transplant is a treatment option for some patients with CSF1R-associated disorders.
- Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the condition.

### Drug Response
- Studies suggest that targeting CSF1R with small molecule inhibitors may have therapeutic benefits in several types of cancer, including breast and ovarian cancer.

#### Related Papers
- Kim, M. Y., Oskarsson, T., Acharyya, S., Nguyen, D. X., Zhang, X. H., Norton, L., & Massagué, J. (2009). Tumor self-seeding by circulating cancer cells. Cell, 139(7), 1315-1326. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2009.11.025)
- Cannarile, M. A., Weisser, M., Jacob, W., Jegg, A. M., Ries, C. H., & Rüttinger, D. (2017). Colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) inhibitors in cancer therapy. Journal for ImmunoTherapy of Cancer, 5(1), 53. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s40425-017-0257-y)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**