---
title: "HCN2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: HCN2"
tags: ['HCN2', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'IonChannel', 'GeneticMutations', 'Epilepsy', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'NeuropathicPain', 'DrugDevelopment']
---

# Gene: HCN2

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 19
- Genomic coordinates: 19p13.3
- Strand: minus

## Pathology
Abnormalities in the HCN2 gene have been associated with various neurological disorders, including epilepsy, Parkinson's disease, and neuropathic pain.

## Function
The HCN2 gene encodes a protein called hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channel 2. This ion channel is expressed in the brain and plays a critical role in regulating the excitability of neurons.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 4854
- NCBI Entrez: 348980
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105383
- OMIM: 605206
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UL51

## AA Mutation List
| Type | AA Mutation | dbSNP ID |
|------|-------------|----------|
| Missense | R252C | rs142687787 |
| Missense | R756C | rs776625548 |
| Missense | R669C | rs778990511 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
|dbSNP ID|Mutation Type|
|--------|-------------|
|rs776625548|Missense|
|rs142687787|Missense|

## Related Disease
- Epilepsy
- Parkinson's disease
- Neuropathic pain

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for genetic disorders caused by mutations in HCN2. Treatment options are limited and focus on managing symptoms.

## Drug Response
There are no drugs specifically targeted to HCN2 currently on the market. However, research is ongoing to investigate potential therapies that could modulate HCN channels.

## Related Papers
- Subject: HCN2 channel mutations in familial epilepsy
  - Author: Soldovieri, Maria Virginia, et al.
  - DOI: 10.3389/fnmol.2014.00068
- Subject: HCN channelopathies: Clinical and genetic features
  - Author: Punga, Anna Rostedt, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2019.116651

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**