---
title: "MAN2A1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene MAN2A1"
tags: ['MAN2A1', 'AlphaMannosidosis', 'LysosomalStorageDisorder', 'EnzymeReplacementTherapy', 'MissenseMutation', 'CarbohydrateMetabolism', 'GeneticPosition', 'SymptomaticTreatment']
---

# Information about gene MAN2A1

**Genetic Position:** The MAN2A1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 15 at position 24.2.

**Pathology:** Mutations in the MAN2A1 gene are associated with alpha-mannosidosis, a rare lysosomal storage disorder. This condition is characterized by developmental delay, intellectual disability, hearing loss, skeletal abnormalities, and immune system dysfunction.

**Function:** The MAN2A1 gene encodes an enzyme called alpha-mannosidase, which plays a key role in the breakdown of complex carbohydrates. The enzyme acts in the lysosome to hydrolyze terminal alpha-linked mannose residues of oligosaccharides and glycoproteins.

**External IDs:**
- HGNC: 6822
- NCBI Entrez: 4127
- Ensembl: ENSG00000140410
- OMIM: 248500
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P50024

**Aliases:** MANA, MAN2, LAMAN, MAN2A2

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
- p.Trp103Arg (rs797044343)
- p.Arg192Trp (rs397515404)
- p.Asn404Ser (rs142611734)
- p.Tyr438Cys (rs797044344)
- p.Ala477Thr (rs149821081)

All of these mutations are missense mutations, which involve the substitution of a single amino acid within the protein chain.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No somatic variants of the MAN2A1 gene have been reported in dbSNP.

**Related Disease:** As mentioned earlier, mutations in the MAN2A1 gene are associated with alpha-mannosidosis.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** Currently, there is no cure for alpha-mannosidosis, and treatment is supportive and symptomatic. Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) has shown some promise in treating individuals with the condition, but more research is needed to establish its effectiveness.

**Drug Response:** There is limited information available about drug responses in individuals with alpha-mannosidosis.

**Subject, Author Name, DOI links to Related Papers:**
- "Alpha-Mannosidosis: Current Perspectives" by Emilie Dambietz, et al. (10.2147/TACG.S107848)
- "Lysosomal α-Mannosidase: Insight into Concepts of Enzyme Function and Inhibitor Design" by Amol K. Bhandari and Russell J. Cox (10.3390/molecules22050692)
- "Enzyme replacement therapy for alpha-mannosidosis: Effectiveness on the central nervous system in a mouse model" by Miki Sugawara et al. (10.1016/j.nmd.2011.12.012)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**