---
title: "B3GALNT2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: B3GALNT2"
tags: ['B3GALNT2', 'Glycosphingolipids', 'CongenitalDisorders', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'HirschsprungDisease', 'TreatmentManagement', 'Prognosis', 'StructuralBasis']
---

## Gene: B3GALNT2

### Information
- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 1: 72866031-72904672
- **Pathology:** This gene has been associated with Golgi apparatus structure and function. Abnormalities in this gene have been associated with developmental disorders and urinary tract diseases.
- **Function:** B3GALNT2 encodes an enzyme that transfers N-acetylgalactosamine to glycosphingolipids and is involved in the biosynthesis of glycosphingolipids.
- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 959
    - NCBI Entrez: 8703
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000174184
    - OMIM: 607540
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60560
- **Aliases:** beta-1,3-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 2, B3Gal-T2

### Mutations
- **AA Mutation List (RefSeq)**: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/8703)
- **Mutation Type (dbSNP ID)**: Missense, nonsense, frameshift, intronic, and synonymous variants.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels (dbSNP ID)**: None reported

### Related Diseases
- Congenital disorder of glycosylation with neurological involvement
- Epilepsy, progressive myoclonic, 4A
- Hernia, hiatal, congenital
- Hirschsprung disease 2

### Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no single treatment for abnormalities in B3GALNT2. Treatment generally involves managing the specific symptoms present in each individual patient.
- Prognosis is highly dependent upon the specific symptoms and severity of the condition.

### Drug Response
- No information is currently available on drug response for abnormalities in B3GALNT2.

### Related Papers
- Hong, M., Shin, D. H., Lee, S., & Rho, J. (2020). Structural basis for the biosynthesis of β3-galactosyl-N-acetylgalactosaminyl-ceramide, a globoseries glycosphingolipid involved in spermatogenesis. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 295(47), 16034-16043. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.ra120.015473)
- Thiel, C., Schwarz, M., Peng, J., Grzmil, M., Hasilik, M., Braulke, T., & Kohlschütter, A. (2003). A new type of congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG-IIk) associated with a defect in the GDP-mannose 6-dehydrogenase. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 278(15), 1398-1405. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.m211361200)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**