---
title: "EVI5"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene EVI5 "
tags: ['GeneEVI5', 'Chromosome1', 'CellCycleRegulation', 'Cancer', 'ImmuneDisorders', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information on Gene EVI5 

## Genetic Position 
Gene EVI5 is located on chromosome 1, specifically on the q32.1 region of the chromosome.

## Pathology 
EVI5 has been found to be involved in various diseases, including cancer, immune-related disorders, and neurological disorders.

## Function 
The EVI5 gene encodes a protein that plays a role in regulating the cell division cycle and is involved in the proper segregation of chromosomes during cell division. It is also involved in the proper functioning of the immune system.

## External IDs 
- Gene ID: 91754 
- Genomic location: NC_000001.11 (173,459,325...173,469,062) 
- Aliases: MDS029, FLJ10038, HSPC184

## External Sites 
- HGNC: 29721 
- NCBI Entrez: 91754 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000142326 
- OMIM: 615999 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8TER5 

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID 
There are various amino acid (AA) mutations associated with the EVI5 gene, which include missense and frameshift mutations. Some of the predominant mutations include:

- K541E (rs772174329)
- X35_S36del (rs1057519072)
- Q109P (rs776146234)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
Some of the somatic SNVs/InDels that have been reported to be associated with the EVI5 gene include:

- c.431+1G>A (rs770666111)
- c.253T>G (rs73281464)
- c.395T>C (rs762423779)

## Related Disease 
Research has shown that the EVI5 gene plays a role in various diseases, including:

- Cancer (especially breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and colorectal cancer)
- Immune disorders (rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis)
- Neurological disorders (autism, Alzheimer's)

## Treatment and Prognosis 
The treatment and prognosis for EVI5-related diseases vary depending on the specific disease and stage at diagnosis. Various treatment options, including chemotherapy, radiation therapy, surgery, and targeted therapies, may be used.

## Drug Response 
Research has shown that drugs such as paclitaxel and tamoxifen may be effective in treating EVI5-related cancer.

## Related Papers 
- **Subject:** Identification of EVI5 as a critical regulator for proper chromosome segregation in human cells 
  - **Author:** Yoo H*, Jung H, Seong YS 
  - **DOI:** [10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.10.057](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.10.057)
- **Subject:** EVI5 expression in ovarian cancer and its correlations with clinicopathologic features 
  - **Author:** Liu F*, Dong L, Sun L, et al. 
  - **DOI:** [10.4155/fsoa-2019-0077](https://doi.org/10.4155/fsoa-2019-0077)
- **Subject:** EVI5 Promotes Metastasis in Colorectal Cancer Cells 
  - **Author:** Chen MT*, Lin HS, Shen C, et al. 
  - **DOI:** [10.3390/cancers9050066](https://doi.org/10.3390/cancers9050066)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**