---
title: "RDH12"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene RDH12"
tags: ['RDH12', 'RetinalDisease', 'Inherited', 'GeneTherapy', 'VisionLoss', 'LCA13', 'Mutation', 'VisualCycle']
---

## Gene RDH12

- **Function:** The RDH12 gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called retinol dehydrogenase 12, which is involved in the visual cycle. This enzyme is responsible for the conversion of retinol to retinaldehyde, a crucial step in the process of vision.

- **External IDs:**
  - Gene ID: 145226
  - Genomic location: Chromosome 14:62,453,333-62,484,637
  - Aliases: RETHD12, RRD, RDH13

- **External sites:**
  - HGNC: 20141
  - NCBI Entrez: 145226
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000129534
  - OMIM: 608830
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96KN2

- **AA mutation list:**
  - p.Leu186Arg
  - p.Arg161Gly
  - p.Arg161His
  - p.Leu134LeufsTer7
  - p.Gln141Ter
  - p.Arg161Cys
  - p.Arg161Ser

- **Mutation type and dbSNP ID:**
  - Missense: rs61751071
  - Frameshift: rs121918386
  - Nonsense: rs121918385

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
  - N/A

- **Related disease:** Mutations in the RDH12 gene are associated with a rare form of inherited retinal disease called Leber congenital amaurosis 13 (LCA13). This disease is characterized by severe vision loss from birth or early childhood, nystagmus, and absent or severely reduced electrical signals in the retina.

- **Treatment and prognosis:** Currently, there is no cure for LCA13. Treatment options include gene therapy, which involves the use of genetically modified viruses to deliver functional copies of the RDH12 gene to the retina. The prognosis for individuals with LCA13 is generally poor, and most affected individuals experience progressive vision loss over time.

- **Drug response:** There is currently no drug therapy specifically designed for LCA13.

- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
  - **Subject:** "RDH12 retinopathy: novel mutations and phenotypic description"
  - **Author:** Eleni K. Konstantinou, Evangelos K. Gerou, et al.
  - **DOI:** 10.1111/cge.12593
  
  - **Subject:** "A naturally occurring splice site mutation in the RDH12 gene of dogs with blinding progressive retinal atrophy"
  - **Author:** Gustavo D. Aguirre, Belen T. Ostrander, et al.
  - **DOI:** 10.1073/pnas.0407657102
  
  - **Subject:** "Gene Augmentation Therapy Restores Retinal Function and Visual Behavior in a Sheep Model of CNGA3 Achromatopsia"
  - **Author**: Maria I. Patrício, Denise M. Beltran, et al.
  - **DOI:** 10.1016/j.omtm.2018.10.009

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**