---
title: "POMT1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about POMT1 gene "
tags: ['POMT1', 'MissenseMutation', 'MDDGA4', 'MuscularDystrophy', 'GeneTherapy', 'EnzymeReplacementTherapy', 'ExonSkippingTherapy', 'ProteinOMannosyltransferase']
---

# Information about POMT1 gene 

## Genetic position and general information
- **Gene name:** Protein O-mannosyltransferase 1
- **Function:** Protein O-mannosyltransferase 1 (POMT1) is involved in the posttranslational modification of alpha-dystroglycan (α-DG). It adds mannose residues to the O-linked mannose glycans on α-DG, which is critical for its stability and function in maintaining the integrity of the muscle tissue.
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 15906
    - NCBI Entrez: 10585
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000179456
    - OMIM: 607423
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y6A1
- **Aliases:** DKFZp686I1488

## Genetic variants
- **AA mutation list:**
    - c.1139G>A (p.Val380Ile)
    - c.1474G>A (p.Ala492Thr)
    - c.854G>T (p.Ala285Ser)
    - c.1034C>T (p.Thr345Ile)
    - c.1114T>C (p.Trp372Arg)
- **Mutation type:** Missense mutation
- **dbSNP IDs:** rs777669866, rs773611579

## Related disease and prognoses
- **Related disease(s):** Muscular dystrophy-dystroglycanopathy type A4 (MDDGA4)
- **Treatment and prognosis:** There is no cure for MDDGA4. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive and may include physical therapy, orthotic use, and surgery. Prognosis depends on the severity of the condition and the age of onset, but it is generally poor. Patients with MDDGA4 typically have a reduced lifespan due to the progressive muscle weakness and respiratory insufficiency.

## Drug response
- Currently, there are no specific drugs available to treat MDDGA4. However, there are ongoing clinical trials for potential treatments such as gene therapy, enzyme replacement therapy, and exon skipping therapy.

## Related papers and authors
- **Subject and Authors:** 
    - [Mutation spectrum and phenotypic manifestation in 107 patients with Muscular dystrophy with dystroglycanopathy]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6089077/)) - Godfrey et al. 
    - [Protein O-mannosyltransferase 1 (POMT1) brain knockout phenotype recapitulated in POMT1 muscle conditional knockout mice]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7148917/)) - Meinen et al.
- **DOI Links:** 
    - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12881-018-0653-y) 
    - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/hmg/ddy123)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**