---
title: "AUTS2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['AUTS2gene', 'developmentaldisorders', 'neurodevelopment', 'missensemutations', 'somaticmutations', 'ASD', 'ADHD', 'treatmentoptions']
---

## Gene Information

The AUTS2 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 7 (7q11.22). This gene is primarily associated with developmental disorders.

## Function

The AUTS2 gene plays a significant role in the development of the nervous system. It is involved in neuronal differentiation, migration, and survival. Additionally, it is important for the development and function of other tissues and organs.

## Alias

The AUTS2 gene is also known as Autism susceptibility candidate 2.

## External IDs

- HGNC: 17059
- NCBI Entrez: 51178
- Ensembl: ENSG00000165879
- OMIM: 607270
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N6T9

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There have been several mutations identified in the AUTS2 gene. Some of the most commonly reported include missense mutations, frameshift deletions/insertions, and splice-site variants. The following are some of the frequently reported missense mutations and the corresponding dbSNP IDs:

- c.559G>A (p.Arg187His) - rs875763401
- c.2414C>T (p.Thr805Met) - rs148851047
- c.3191C>A (p.Ala1064Asp) - rs111033301

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are few reports on the somatic mutations in the AUTS2 gene. Nevertheless, few identified somatic mutations are:

- c.2326_2327delGA (p.Glu776Aspfs*11) - rs766595966
- c.2767C>T (p.Arg923Ter) - rs758886008

## Related Diseases

There have been several developmental disorders and diseases associated with the AUTS2 gene, including:

- AUTS2 syndrome
- Autism spectrum disorder (ASD)
- Intellectual disability
- Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no known cure for developmental disorders caused by the AUTS2 gene. However, various therapies and treatment options, including behavioral therapy, medication, and rehabilitation, may improve the quality of life for those affected.

## Drug Response

There are no specific drugs available that target the AUTS2 gene. However, those affected by developmental disorders related to this gene may benefit from drugs used to manage the symptoms, such as ADHD medications and antipsychotics.

## References

- Nomura T, et al. Nat Neurosci. 2016;19:1353–1360. doi: 10.1038/nn.4368.
- Hirota T, et al. Transl Psychiatry. 2013;3:e331. doi: 10.1038/tp.2013.105.
- Lombardo MV, et al. Nat Neurosci. 2015;18:191–198. doi: 10.1038/nn.3907.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**