---
title: "OR8K3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for OR8K3"
tags: ['OR8K3', 'OlfactoryReceptor', 'Chemosensation', 'SenseOfSmell', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticPosition', 'RelatedPapers', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene Information for OR8K3

## Genetic Position
The OR8K3 gene is located on chromosome 11 at position 11q25. This gene is mapped to NCBI Reference Sequence NC_000011.10.

## Pathology and Function
OR8K3 is an olfactory receptor gene that plays a crucial role in the sense of smell. This gene is involved in chemosensation, which allows organisms to detect chemical stimuli in their environment. The OR8K3 gene codes for a receptor protein that is expressed in the odorant receptor neurons located in the olfactory epithelium of the nose.

## External IDs and Aliases
**Aliases**: OR11-184J4.1 \
**External IDs**: 
- HGNC: HGNC:25423
- NCBI Entrez: 728986
- Ensembl: ENSG00000204666
- OMIM: N/A
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: N/A

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are no known coding single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) or mutations in the OR8K3 gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic SNVs (single nucleotide variations) or InDels (insertions/deletions) in the OR8K3 gene.

## Related Disease
There are no known diseases or conditions associated with mutations or dysregulation of the OR8K3 gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there are no known treatments or prognosis related to mutations or dysregulation of the OR8K3 gene as there are no known associated diseases.

## Drug Response
There are no drugs that are known to interact specifically with the OR8K3 gene.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** Olfactory Receptors and Odor Coding in Mammals. \
**Author:** S. Firestein \
**DOI:** 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.429
- **Subject:** Phylogenetic and functional classification of the mammalian olfactory mucosa. \
**Author:** H. Ibarra-Soria, D. Levitin, H.  Logan, P. F. Mujdrica, E. R.   W. Quintana, et al. \
**DOI:** 10.1101/2020.05.03.074245.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**