---
title: "UPB1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: UPB1"
tags: ['UPB1', 'Ureidopropionase', 'PyrimidineNucleotides', '3HIBAuria', 'MetabolicDisorder', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'GeneticMutation', 'EnzymaticMethod']
---

## Gene: UPB1

#### Function:

UPB1 gene encodes the protein ureidopropionase, which is involved in the catabolism of uracil and thymine. This gene is also involved in the biosynthesis of pyrimidine nucleotides.

#### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:

- HGNC: 12639
- NCBI Entrez: 51704
- Ensembl: ENSG00000109819
- OMIM: 609735
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H3D4

Aliases: URIP, UPP

#### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:

There are no reported AA mutations for UPB1 gene.

#### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for UPB1 gene.

#### Related disease:

UPB1 mutations are not known to cause any specific disease. However, mutations in UPB1 lead to an increase in the urinary level of 3-hydroxyisobutyric acid (3-HIBA) and N-acetyl-3-amino-2-propenamide, which causes 3-HIBAuria. This is a rare metabolic disorder characterized by mental retardation, developmental delay, seizures, and growth retardation.

#### Treatment and prognosis:

There is no specific treatment for 3-HIBAuria. The treatment is generally supportive, and patients with 3-HIBAuria require management by a multidisciplinary team.

#### Drug response:

No information available for drug response.

#### Related papers:

- **Title:** Cloning and functional expression of human ureidopropionase cDNA.
  - **Author:** Gao X., Grigoryan A., Volden G., Fisher E., Bunni M., Wang J.,
       Gardner T.B.
  - **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/s0378-1119(99)00454-5)
  
- **Title:** A sensitive enzymatic method for determination of N-acetylpropenamide in
       plasma.
  - **Author:** Amrein B.A., Bösch K., Diemand E., Künzli G., Lüscher B., Schneiter P.,
       Stutz E.
  - **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/s0021-9673(02)00886-5)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**