---
title: "STIM1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene STIM1"
tags: ['GeneSTIM1', 'CalciumSensor', 'MissenseMutation', 'RelatedDiseases', 'SymptomManagement', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Information on Gene STIM1

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function

**Gene:** STIM1

**Location:** Chromosome 11p15.5

**Alias:** GOK

**Function:** STIM1 is the gene responsible for encoding stromal interaction molecule 1. This protein is located in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of cells and serves as a calcium sensor. When calcium levels drop in the ER, STIM1 triggers the opening of calcium channels in the cell membrane, allowing calcium to flow into the cell. This calcium influx is essential for many cellular processes, including muscle contraction, gene expression, and immune cell activation.

## External IDs and Sites

**HGNC:** 16097

**NCBI Entrez:** 6786

**Ensembl:** ENSG00000162425

**OMIM:** 605921

**UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q13586

## Mutation Information

**AA Mutation List:**

- E136G
- G304R
- R304H
- L197P

**Mutation Type:** Missense

**dbSNP ID:** rs143091068, rs74315465, rs74315466

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

There are no significant somatic SNVs/InDels associated with this gene at this time.

## Related Diseases

Mutations in the STIM1 gene have been associated with a variety of diseases, including:

- Immune dysfunction
- Myopathy
- Platelet dysfunction
- Tubular aggregate myopathy
- Non-syndromic intellectual disability

## Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment for diseases caused by STIM1 mutations is primarily focused on symptom management. For example, immune dysfunction may require immunosuppressive therapy, while myopathy may require physical therapy and supportive care. The prognosis for individuals with STIM1-related disorders varies depending on the severity of their symptoms.

## Drug Response

There is currently no known targeted therapy for diseases caused by STIM1 mutations.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Genetic analysis of STIM1 in a cohort of patients with non-syndromic intellectual disability
  - Author: Ali R. et al.
  - DOI: [10.1111/cge.12765]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/cge.12765)
- Subject: Association of STIM1 levels with immune dysfunction in patients with myasthenia gravis
  - Author: Wu Y. et al.
  - DOI: [10.1111/ene.14290]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/ene.14290)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**