---
title: "TBX19"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene TBX19"
tags: ['TBX19', 'CCHS', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'AutonomicNervousSystem', 'Mutation', 'BreathingControl', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene TBX19

### Genetic Position
The TBX19 gene is located on the chromosome 1p12.2.

### Pathology
Mutations in the TBX19 gene have been linked to the development of Congenital Central Hypoventilation Syndrome (CCHS), a rare genetic disorder that affects breathing control during sleep.

### Function
TBX19 encodes a transcription factor involved in the development and specification of neuronal populations involved in the control of respiration, specifically the autonomic nervous system.

### External IDs and Genomic Location

- HGNC: 11618
- NCBI Entrez: 6915
- Ensembl: ENSG00000158535
- OMIM: 209880 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60806

The genomic location of TBX19 is Chr1:46022697-46043752.

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

The following is a list of amino acid mutations in the TBX19 gene along with their mutation type and dbSNP ID, if available:

- p.Glu88Leu, missense, rs104894728
- p.Gln113His, missense, rs764727939
- p.Cys315Gly, missense, rs1057516903
- p.Arg320*, nonsense, rs1553610888

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There currently are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels in TBX19.

### Related Disease
CCHS is a rare autosomal dominant disorder associated with mutations in TBX19.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for CCHS, and treatment options are limited to managing symptoms. Prognosis for CCHS patients varies depending on the severity of symptoms and the patient's adherence to treatment plans.

### Drug Response
There is no specific drug approved for treatment of CCHS.

### Related Papers
- Weese-Mayer, D. E., Berry-Kravis, E. M., Zhou, L., Maher, B. S., & Silvestri, J. M. (2018). Congenital Central Hypoventilation Syndrome: A Clinical Perspective and Update. Advances in Therapy, 35(11), 1845–1854. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12325-018-0799-y) 
- Massari, M., D’Aloia, A., Conti, V., Sacco, O., & Biffi, A. (2020). Congenital Central Hypoventilation Syndrome (CCHS): An Overview of Genetic, Clinical, Diagnostic and Therapeutic Aspects. International Journal of Molecular Sciences, 21(22), 8779. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms21228779)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**