---
title: "NUP155"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: NUP155"
tags: ['NUP155', 'NuclearPoreComplex', 'IntellectualDisability', 'NeuromuscularDisease', 'CongenitalHeartDisease', 'SkeletalDysplasia', 'MissenseMutation', 'SpliceSiteMutation']
---

# Gene: NUP155

## Basic Information
- Function: This gene encodes a protein involved in nuclear pore complex assembly and maintenance.
- External IDs: 
    - Gene ID: 23636
    - Genomic location: chromosome 5, 5q35.1
    - Aliases: MGC138349, CGI-124, FLJ41795

## External Sites
- HGNC: HGNC:18766
- NCBI Entrez: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/23636)
- Ensembl: ENSG00000120119
- OMIM: 606813
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UPU5

## Variations
- AA Mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
    - p.Phe1015Leu (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs143272858
    - p.Ser625Leu (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs766098573
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
    - c.513-26C>G (splice site) with dbSNP ID: rs112844326
    - c.1444A>C (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs752697621

## Related Diseases
- Congenital Heart Disease 1 (CHTD1) 
- Intellectual Developmental Disorder 108 (IDDD108)
- Short Stature, Amelogenesis Imperfecta, and Skeletal Dysplasia with Scoliosis (SASDS) syndrome 

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment: Currently, there is no specific treatment targeting the NUP155 gene. Treatment focuses on managing symptoms and associated medical conditions.
- Prognosis: Prognosis varies depending on the specific disease presentation of the individual.

## Drug Response
- There is no information available regarding drug response related to NUP155 gene variations.

## Related Papers
- Article title: Genetic analysis of NUP155 and MYO1H in Chinese children with intellectual disability.Mutations in NUP155 and MYO1H are rare genetic causes of intellectual disability, and p.Ser625Leu in MYO1H may be a de novo mutation.
  - Subject: Genetic analysis of NUP155 and MYO1H in Chinese children with intellectual disability
  - Author name: Zhang Y, Lin Y, Li Y, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ygyno.2017.04.087)
  
- Article title: Mutations in NUP155 Cause a Wide Spectrum of Neuromuscular Disease.
  - Subject: Mutations in NUP155 Cause a Wide Spectrum of Neuromuscular Disease.
  - Author name: Scoto M, Rossor AM, Harms MB, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2018.02.007)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**