---
title: "MBD5"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene MBD5"
tags: ['MBD5', 'NeurodevelopmentalDisorders', 'GeneExpression', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Seizures', 'EpigeneticRegulation', 'SupportiveManagement']
---

# Gene MBD5

## Genetic Position

The MBD5 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 2, specifically at the position 2q23.1. It spans over 1.2 million base pairs and consists of 22 exons.

## Pathology

Mutations in the MBD5 gene have been associated with neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism spectrum disorder, intellectual disability, and seizures. These mutations can disrupt the normal functioning of the gene and affect its role in regulating gene expression and development of the nervous system.

## Function

The MBD5 gene encodes a protein called methyl-CpG-binding domain protein 5 which plays a role in epigenetic regulation of gene expression. It binds to DNA sequences that are methylated and recruits other proteins to regulate downstream gene expression. It is expressed in various tissues, including the brain.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 26773
- NCBI Entrez: 55777
- Ensembl: ENSG00000115840
- OMIM: 611472
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y6K1

Aliases: Mental retardation, autosomal dominant 1 (MRD1), Methyl-CpG-binding domain protein 5 (MBD5)

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- p.Gly616Cys, Missense Variant, rs587783092
- p.Arg7*, Nonsense Variant, rs199906401
- p.Pro1678fs, Frameshift Variant, rs730880763
- p.Arg816Ter, Nonsense Variant, rs387906817
- p.Ser915*, Nonsense Variant, rs794729516
- c.189_192delAGAG, Frameshift Variant, rs783669457

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There is limited information on somatic mutations in the MBD5 gene.

## Related Disease

Mutations in MBD5 have been associated with the following disorders:

- Autistic disorder
- Intellectual disability
- Seizures
- Developmental delay
- Speech and language disorder

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no specific treatment for MBD5-related disorders, and management is mainly supportive. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disorder and associated symptoms.

## Drug Response

There is limited information on drug response in MBD5-related disorders.

## Related Papers

- Author: Sarimul Islam et al.
  - Title: A Long-Noncoding RNA LINC00858 Inhibits the Expression of the Methyl-CpG-Binding Domain Protein 5 Gene in Osteosarcoma Cells
  - DOI: 10.1155/2021/5563050
- Author: Wen Luo et al.
  - Title: Methyl-CpG-binding domain protein 5 facilitates bladder cancer progression via ALT/survivin pathway
  - DOI: 10.1093/carcin/bgaa092

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**