---
title: "TUBB2B"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene TUBB2B"
tags: ['TUBB2B', 'NeurologicalDiseases', 'CorticalMalformations', 'IntellectualDisability', 'EpilepticEncephalopathy', 'Microtubules', 'BetaTubulin', 'GeneticMutations']
---

# Information about gene TUBB2B

## Genetic position

- Gene: TUBB2B (Tubulin beta-2B chain)
- Chromosome: 2
- Location: 2q35

## Pathology and function

- Function: TUBB2B encodes for a member of the beta-tubulin protein family. It primarily forms microtubules that are a critical component of the cytoskeleton and essential for intracellular transport, mitosis, and cell shape maintenance. 
- Pathology: TUBB2B mutations have been linked to a spectrum of neurological diseases, including epileptic encephalopathy, cortical malformations, and intellectual disability. Abnormalities in TUBB2B expression have also been observed in some cancers.
 
## External IDs, aliases, and related sites 
- External IDs: HGNC:12468 ; NCBI Entrez: 10381; Ensembl: ENSG00000170606; OMIM: 602661; UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13885
- Aliases: Beta-4; TUBB3B; CDCBM12; B4T; Beta IV tubulin

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.1004C>T (p.Leu335Phe) rs769645990
- c.583T>C (p.Ile195Thr) rs201691067
- c.818T>C (p.Phe273Leu) rs778558000

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Not available

## Related disease
- Cortical malformations
- Intellectual disability
- Epileptic encephalopathy
- Breast cancer, lung cancer, and liver cancer

## Treatment and prognosis
- Treatment focuses on managing symptoms and providing supportive care, such as medications, physical therapy, and occupational therapy.
- Prognosis depends on the severity of the disease, age of onset, and extent of neurological impairment.

## Drug response
- Not available

## Related papers and authors
- Tischfield MA, et al. Variants in TUBB2B are associated with a spectrum of cortical malformations including microcephaly. Nat Genet. 2010 Dec;42(12): 1011-1013. doi: 10.1038/ng.683.
- Cushion TD, et al. Missense mutations in the beta-tubulin gene TUBB2B result in asymmetrical polymicrogyria. Nat Genet. 2013 Nov;45(11): 1326-1329. doi: 10.1038/ng.2772.
- Breuss MW, et al. Mutations in the beta-tubulin gene TUBB5 cause microcephaly with structural brain abnormalities. Cell Rep. 2012 Oct 25;2(4): 779-791. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2012.08.034.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**