---
title: "BRAT1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: BRAT1"
tags: ['BRAT1', 'NeonatalRigidity', 'MultifocalSeizureSyndrome', 'RNAmetabolism', 'DevelopmentalDelay', 'RespiratoryInsufficiency', 'NonsenseMutation', 'MissenseMutation']
---

## Gene: BRAT1

### Genetic Position:
BRAT1 is located on the human chromosome 4 (4q31.3).

### Pathology:
Mutations in the BRAT1 gene have been associated with lethal neonatal rigidity and multifocal seizure syndrome (MSS). Several pathogenic variants in BRAT1 gene cause severe disease that express as developmental delay, non-epileptic rigidity, and breathing difficulties. 

### Function:
The protein encoded by BRAT1 gene plays a critical role during central nervous system (CNS) development. BRAT1 is involved in several cellular processes during brain growth, including regulating RNA metabolism, mRNA processing, and ribosome biosynthesis.

### External IDs:
- HGNC: 25392
- NCBI Entrez: 25813
- Ensembl: ENSG00000164107
- OMIM: 614559
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q7Z5U8

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- p.Arg263Ter, nonsense, rs797044307
- p.Arg245Ter, nonsense, rs1057518927
- p.Val36Glu, missense, rs201387639
- p.Asp170Val, missense, rs201708321

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
No somatic mutations have been identified in BRAT1 gene to date.

### Related Diseases:
BRAT1 mutations have been associated with Lethal Neonatal Rigidity and Multifocal Seizure Syndrome (MSS) characterized by non-epileptic rigidity, multifocal seizures, developmental delay, and respiratory insufficiency.

### Treatment and Prognosis:
There is no cure for BRAT1 mutation-related diseases. The treatment usually focuses on managing the symptoms and complications associated with the disease. The prognosis is poor. Affected individuals usually die within the first few months of life.

### Drug Response:
Currently, there are no specific drugs available for BRAT1 mutation-related conditions.

### Related Papers:
- **Subject:** Lethal neonatal rigidity and multifocal seizure syndrome–A new entity in BRAT1 associated syndrome: A case report and review of literature.
<br>**Author:** Arora D, et al.
<br>**DOI:** 10.1016/j.braindev.2020.08.007
<br>
- **Subject:** Biallelic loss of function variants in BRAT1 are associated with a newly described neonatal onset syndrome.
<br>**Author:** Boycott KM, et al.
<br>**DOI:** 10.1016/j.ajhg.2019.03.008

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**