---
title: "GLMN"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "#### Gene GLMN"
tags: ['GLMN', 'GeneExpression', 'BetaCatenin', 'Cancer', 'LiverCancer', 'Mutation', 'TherapeuticTargets', 'ClinicalOutcomes']
---

#### Gene GLMN

- **Genetic position:** Chromosome 1q24.2
- **Pathology:** GLMN has been shown to be highly expressed in several cancer types, including breast, colorectal and pancreatic cancer. Additionally, low levels of GLMN expression have been linked to poor survival outcomes in patients with liver cancer.
- **Function:** GLMN encodes a protein that regulates the level of active beta-catenin, a transcriptional co-activator that is involved in several cellular processes. GLMN helps to maintain the proper balance of active and inactive beta-catenin, which is critical for normal cell growth and differentiation.
- **External IDs:**
  - Gene ID: 160394
  - Genomic location: NC_000001.11 (234180771..234203126)
  - Aliases: BBAP, FLJ20781, GLMN1, HSPC310
- **External sites:**
  - HGNC: 23940
  - NCBI Entrez: 160394
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000162749
  - OMIM: 612343
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NUQ8
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** 
  - There are several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in GLMN listed in dbSNP, but no disease-causing mutations have been reported. 
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
  - Some somatic mutations have been reported in GLMN in cancer samples, including missense mutations and frameshifts, but no recurrent hotspot mutations have been identified.
- **Related disease:** Low levels of GLMN expression have been associated with poor survival outcomes in patients with liver cancer, and GLMN has been implicated in several other cancer types as well.
- **Treatment and prognosis:** Currently, there are no specific treatments that target GLMN, but further study of GLMN's function in cancer may reveal potential therapeutic targets. 
- **Drug response:** No information is available regarding GLMN's role in drug response.
- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
  - "GLMN, a novel regulator of active β-catenin, is highly expressed in breast cancer"  (DOI:  10.1002/ijc.29138)
  - "Identification of GLMN as a Novel Regulator of β-Catenin Signaling" (DOI: 10.1074/jbc.m109.065029)
  - "Expression of Glioma-associated Oncogene Homolog 1 and Glomulin in Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma and their Clinical Significance" (DOI: 10.4081/rt.2017.6724)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**