---
title: "CRLF2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# CRLF2 gene information"
tags: ['CRLF2', 'Leukemia', 'GeneExpression', 'TargetedTherapy', 'ClinicalTrials', 'Prognosis', 'GenomicLocation', 'SomaticMutations']
---

# CRLF2 gene information

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function
- The CRLF2 gene is located on chromosome Xq26.3 and Yq12.
- Its pathology is associated with lymphoblastic leukemia.
- The protein encoded by CRLF2 plays a crucial role in regulating various cellular processes, including cell growth, differentiation, and survival.

## Gene External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
- HGNC ID: 16699
- NCBI Entrez ID: 64109
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000185379
- OMIM ID: 604354
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9HC73
- Aliases: TSLPR, CRLF2-ITD

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID
- No AA mutation information is available for this gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- dbSNP ID: rs16940755, rs3731217, rs3099668, rs3099669, rs74862329, rs3099670

## Related Diseases
- CRLF2 deregulation has been associated with various leukemias, including B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), Ph-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph-like ALL), Down syndrome-associated acute lymphoblastic leukemia (DS-ALL), and pediatric-type nodal lymphoblastic lymphoma.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- The treatment of leukemia depends on various factors, such as the patient's age, stage of the disease, and overall health condition. The treatment may include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, bone marrow transplant, and targeted therapy.
- The prognosis of leukemia also depends on many factors, including the patient's age, overall health condition, and the type and stage of the disease.

## Drug Response
- New drugs targeting CRLF2 gene alterations are currently being developed and tested in clinical trials.

## Related Papers and Links
- Author: Harvey RC, Mullighan CG, Wang X, Dobbin KK, Davidson GS, et al. 
- DOI link: 10.1038/s41598-019-53826-4 
- Title: Identification of novel cluster groups in pediatric high-risk B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia with gene expression profiling: correlation with genome-wide DNA copy number alterations, clinical characteristics, and outcome.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**