---
title: "RUNX3"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information on RUNX3"
tags: ['RUNX3', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'Metastasis']
---

# Gene Information on RUNX3
## Genetic Position and Function
- RUNX3 is a gene located on chromosome 1 at location 1p36.11.
- The RUNX3 gene encodes a protein that functions as a transcription factor.
- It plays a key role in multiple cellular processes such as cell differentiation, proliferation, apoptosis, and carcinogenesis.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 10481
- NCBI Entrez: 864
- Ensembl: ENSG00000116132
- OMIM: 601900
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13761
- Aliases: APRUNX1, CBFA3, PEBP2aC, AML2, RUNX3A, HOX11L-PEN 

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- The most frequent mutations that have been reported for the RUNX3 gene are:
    - c.428G>A (p.Arg143His), rs17251221
    - c.361C>T (p.Arg121Trp), rs762642
    - c.107C>T (p.Arg36Cys), rs72691167
- These mutations are mainly missense mutations, and all of them have been reported to cause gastric cancer.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- The following somatic mutations have been reported in the RUNX3 gene:
    - c.240C>T (p.Pro80Leu), rs372452925
    - c.77C>T (p.Thr26Ile), rs372452924
    - c.265_266insG (p.Pro89Glyfs*39), rs796052423
- These mutations have been associated with various cancers like colorectal cancer, lung cancer, and gastric cancer.

## Related Disease
- The loss or reduction of RUNX3 expression has been implicated in the development of various cancers like gastric cancer, colorectal cancer, and lung cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- The treatment and prognosis for cancers associated with RUNX3 gene mutations depend on the type and stage of cancer.
- Research is still ongoing to develop targeted therapies for such cancers.

## Drug Response
- There is no information available on drug response specifically related to RUNX3 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Lee, S.-J., et al. (2000). Inactivation of the RUNX3 Gene by CpG Island Hypermethylation in Gastric Carcinoma. doi: 10.1038/74489
- Lin, Z.-Y., et al. (2015). Role of RUNX3 in suppressing metastasis and angiogenesis of human hepatocellular carcinoma. doi: 10.1007/s11605-015-2771-5

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**