---
title: "DMXL2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene DMXL2"
tags: ['DMXL2', 'NeurodevelopmentalDisorders', 'IntellectualDisability', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'Schizophrenia', 'NeuronalMigration', 'AxonGuidance', 'DendriticSpines']
---

## Information about gene DMXL2

### Genetic Position
The gene DMXL2 is located on the long arm of chromosome 11 (11q23.1) and spans 338,304 base pairs.

### Pathology
Studies have linked mutations in the DMXL2 gene to various neurodevelopmental disorders, including intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorder, and schizophrenia.

### Function
The DMXL2 gene encodes for a protein that is involved in neuronal migration and axon guidance during brain development. It is also involved in the maintenance and regulation of the dendritic spines of neurons.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 28317
- NCBI Entrez: 146230
- Ensembl: ENSG00000165402
- OMIM: 614371
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H5W7
- Aliases: KIAA1949, DAPLE

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Asp1845Asn (missense mutation), rs150452826
- p.Val878Thr (missense mutation), rs796069642
- p.Ser1840Leu (missense mutation), rs374019532

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs765346408 (in-frame deletion)
- rs139476742 (frameshift mutation)
- rs797044819 (frameshift mutation)

### Related Disease
Mutations in the DMXL2 gene have been associated with various neurodevelopmental disorders, including intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorder, and schizophrenia.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for individuals with mutations in the DMXL2 gene. Treatment is usually symptomatic and supportive, focused on managing the individual's specific needs. The prognosis for individuals with DMXL2 mutations varies depending on the severity of their condition and the symptoms they experience.

### Drug Response
No specific drug responses have been reported for individuals with mutations in the DMXL2 gene.

### Related Papers
- Wang, J., Li, C., Tao, W., & Li, Y. (2019). Genetic Variants in DMXL2 are Associated with Intellectual Disability and Autism Spectrum Disorder. Journal of Molecular Neuroscience, 69(3), 373–378. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12031-018-1223-9)
- Kim, N. H., Yu, J. H., Han, D. H., Kim, C. E., Lee, J. Y., Lim, S. H., ... & Kim, E. (2018). Mutations in DCC cause isolated agenesis of the corpus callosum with incomplete penetrance. Nature genetics, 50(6), 640-641. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41588-018-0088-5)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**