---
title: "MMP13"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: MMP13"
tags: ['MMP13', 'Collagenase', 'Osteoarthritis', 'RheumatoidArthritis', 'ExtracellularMatrix', 'MMPInhibitors', 'DrugResponse', 'SomaticMutations']
---

## Gene: MMP13

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 11
- Location: 11q22.3
- Strand: -

### Pathology
MMP13 is a member of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family, which are responsible for the degradation of the extracellular matrix. Dysregulation of MMP13 has been implicated in various pathological conditions such as osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, various cancers. 

### Function 
MMP13 encodes for collagenase-3, an enzyme that breaks down type II collagen, the main component of cartilage. Specifically, MMP13 is involved in the degradation of the extracellular matrix in bone and cartilage, leading to the development and progression of osteoarthritis.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 7170
- NCBI Entrez ID: 4322
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000160224
- OMIM ID: 600108
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P45452

Aliases: 
- CLG3
- MANDP2
- MMP-13
- SL-1
- STMY2

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.49A>G - p.Asp17Gly - rs35067371
- c.422A>G - p.Asn141Ser - rs28934574
- c.444A>G - p.His148Arg - rs61744951
- c.472C>T - p.Ala158Val - rs387907067

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are a few reported SNVs/InDels in MMP13 somatic mutations, but none of them has dbSNP ID. 

### Related Disease
- Osteoarthritis: Dysregulation of MMP13 has been implicated in the degradation of cartilage and development and progression of osteoarthritis.
- Rheumatoid Arthritis: Upregulation of MMP13 has been observed in synovial tissues of rheumatoid arthritis patients.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Various MMP inhibitors have been developed and tested as a potential treatment option for osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. However, clinical trials have shown limited efficacy, and they are not widely used for treating these diseases. Further research is needed to investigate the potential of MMP inhibitors in treating MMP13 associated diseases.

### Drug Response
Some studies have reported that the MMP inhibitors can reduce the progression of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis but some clinical trials failed to show benefit. Therefore, further investigation is needed to determine the appropriate targets for these drugs and identify patients who may benefit from their use.

### Related Papers
- Lark M, et al. (2005) "MMP-13 (collagenase 3)..." Arthritis Rheum. 52(4):1002-12. PMID: 15818672
- Neuhold LA, et al. (2001) "Postnatal expression in hyaline cartilage..." J Orthop Res. 19(6):1083-90. PMID: 11751025
- Yang C-I, et al. (2008) "Expression of the collagen... " J Orthop Surg Res. 3(1):9. PMID: 18454810

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**