---
title: "EIF2B5"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene EIF2B5"
tags: ['GeneEIF2B5', 'VanishingWhiteMatterDisease', 'MissenseMutations', 'ProteinSynthesis', 'Leukodystrophy', 'AutosomalRecessive', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'NoPharmacologicalTreatment']
---

# Information on Gene EIF2B5

## Genetic Position

The gene EIF2B5 is located on chromosome 3q27.1. Specifically, its genomic position is 3:186,202,430-186,260,474.

## Pathology and Function

EIF2B5 encodes for the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2B subunit epsilon, which is involved in protein synthesis. Specifically, it helps to regulate the initiation and elongation phases of translation. Mutations in EIF2B5 have been linked to the leukodystrophy disorder known as vanishing white matter disease (VWMD). This disorder is characterized by progressive symptoms such as ataxia, spasticity, seizures, and cognitive decline. 

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 3314
- NCBI Entrez: 8898
- Ensembl: ENSG00000114054
- OMIM: 603896
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NZJ5

Aliases: 
- EIF-2Bepsilon
- VWMDF2
- eIF-2B GDP/GTP exchange factor subunit epsilon

## AA Mutations and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID

There are several amino acid (AA) mutations in EIF2B5 that have been identified in relation to VWMD. These mutations include but are not limited to:
- S113L (rs121908093)
- R195H (rs28936671)
- R297W (rs672601563)

These mutations fall under the category of missense mutations, meaning that they result in a change of a single amino acid in the protein sequence.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no known somatic SNVs or InDels in EIF2B5 at this time.

## Related Disease

Mutations in EIF2B5 have been associated with the leukodystrophy disorder known as vanishing white matter disease (VWMD). VWMD is an autosomal recessive disorder, and symptoms can vary from person to person.

## Treatment, Prognosis, and Drug Response

Currently, there is no known cure for VWMD, and treatments are generally supportive. There is no known way to predict disease progression for individuals with VWMD, as symptoms can vary widely in both onset and severity.

As for drug response, there are currently no pharmacological treatments available for VWMD.

## Related Papers

Here are a few related papers on EIF2B5 and VWMD:
-  ***Molecular genetic analysis of intermediate forms of vanishing white matter disease.*** Author: van der Knaap MS et al. DOI: 10.1002/ana.10253
- ***The molecular and physiologic basis of eukaryotic protein synthesis.*** Author: Hinnebusch AG et al. DOI: 10.1146/annurev.biochem.73.011303.074211
- ***Vanishing white matter disease: a review with focus on its genetics.*** Author: van der Lei HDW et al. DOI: 10.1136/jnnp-2015-312662

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**