---
title: "WNK4"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene WNK4 "
tags: ['WNK4', 'SaltBalance', 'RenalDisease', 'ThiazideDiuretics', 'MissenseMutation', 'PHAII', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

# Information on Gene WNK4 

## Pathology and Function 
The WNK4 (With No lysine [K] Kinase 4) gene provides instructions for making a protein known as WNK4, which plays a crucial role in regulating the amount of salt in the body. Abnormalities in WNK4 can cause salt imbalance, which can lead to high blood pressure and kidney disease. 

## Gene Information 

- Function: Regulates salt balance in the body 
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 12682 
    - NCBI Entrez: 65266 
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000186850 
    - OMIM: 601844 
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96J92 
- Aliases: PRKWNK4, HSAN2D 

## Mutations 
- AA Mutation List: 
    - R1183H 
    - Q562E 
    - D368G 
    - E562K 
    - S352F 
- Mutation Type: Missense 
- dbSNP ID: rs116980941, rs121908003, rs137854082, rs556323063, rs139257731 

## Related Disease 
Mutations in the WNK4 gene are associated with various renal diseases such as pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 (PHAII), an inherited condition characterized by hypertension, hyperkalemia, and metabolic acidosis. 

## Treatment and Prognosis 
Management of PHAII caused by WNK4 gene mutations typically involves the use of thiazide diuretics. However, there is no current cure for PHAII and management of symptoms is mainly supportive. 

## Drug Response 
Individuals with PHAII caused by WNK4 gene mutations often respond to thiazide diuretics, which can help correct the salt imbalance in the body. 

## References 
- Wilson, F.H., Disse-Nicodème, S., Choate, K.A., Ishikawa, K., Nelson-Williams, C., Desitter, I., Gunel, M., Milford, D.V., Lipkin, G.W., Achard, J.-M., Feely, M.P., Dussol, B., Berland, Y., Unwin, R.J., Mayan, H., Simon, D.B., and Lifton, R.P. (2001). Human hypertension caused by mutations in WNK kinases. Science 293, 1107-1112. doi:10.1126/science.1062844.
- Heise, C.J., Xu, B.-E., Deaton, S.L., Cha, S.-K., Cheng, C.J., Earnest, S., Sengupta, S., Juang, Y.-C., Stippec, S., Xu, Y., Zhao, Y., Huang, C.-L., and Cobb, M.H. (2010). Serum and glucocorticoid-induced kinase 3 in recycling endosomes mediates acute activation of Na+/H+ exchanger NHE3 by glucocorticoids. Mol. Biol. Cell 21, 2059–2070. doi:10.1091/mbc.E10-02-0084.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**