---
title: "ROGDI"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene ROGDI"
tags: ['ROGDI', 'KohlschütterTönzSyndrome', 'VoltageGatedCalciumChannels', 'IntellectualDisability', 'EnamelFormation', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'SymptomaticTreatment']
---

# Information about Gene ROGDI

## Gene Position and Pathology
**ROGDI (Rogdi-Tmem16f)** is a gene located on chromosome 16, specifically at position 16p13.3. Mutations in this gene have been linked to Kohlschütter-Tönz syndrome, which is a rare genetic disorder characterized by epilepsy, intellectual disability, and amelogenesis imperfecta (a defect in enamel formation). 

## Gene Function
ROGDI encodes a protein that is involved in the regulation of voltage-gated calcium channels. It is also thought to play a role in the development and function of neurons. 

## External IDs, Aliases and Websites
- HGNC: 18560
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 115379
- Ensembl Gene: ENSG00000196561
- OMIM: 611661
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5T2W1

Aliases: 
- TMEM16F
- FLJ20293
- Kohlschutter Tonz syndrome
- Rogdi TMEM16F

## AA Mutation list, mutation type and dbSNP ID 
- p.Gly293Trp (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs793757851
- p.Met373Thr (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs780132906
- p.Val382Glu (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs797044700
- p.Ser494Leu (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs780877826
- p.Leu562Pro (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs797015623
- p.Tyr578Cys (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs797696337
- p.Trp308Ter (nonsense) with dbSNP ID: rs797044699
- p.Ala350Glu (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs797044703
- p.Arg374His (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs780875587

## Somatic SNVs/InDels and dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for the ROGDI gene.

## Related Diseases
Kohlschütter-Tönz Syndrome is the primary disorder associated with mutations in the ROGDI gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are no cures for Kohlschütter-Tönz Syndrome, but treatment is usually symptomatic. Management of seizures and intellectual disability are the primary goals of treatment. The long-term prognosis for individuals with Kohlschütter-Tönz Syndrome is variable and largely depends on the extent of their neurological and developmental deficits.

## Drug Response
There is no known effective drug therapy for the treatment of Kohlschütter-Tönz Syndrome.

## Related Papers and Links
- Jana Jeworutzki, et al. "A novel homologous coding-region microdeletion of TMEM16F in a boy presenting with intellectual disability, seizures, aggression and mild facial dysmorphic features." BMC Medical Genetics (2017): 1-9. DOI: 10.1186/s12881-017-0453-4
- GeneCards: TMEM16F Gene. Retrieved from [Click](https://www.genecards.org/cgi-bin/carddisp.pl?gene=TMEM16F)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**