---
title: "CHI3L1"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene CHI3L1 #"
tags: ['CHI3L1', 'Biomarker', 'Disease', 'Protein', 'Genetics', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorders']
---

# Information about Gene CHI3L1 #

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function ##

- **Genetic Position -** CHI3L1 gene is located on chromosome 1q32.1.
- **Pathology -** Elevated levels of CHI3L1 have been linked to various diseases such as inflammation, allergy, cancer, and neurodegenerative disorders.
- **Function -** The CHI3L1 gene produces a protein known as chitinase-3-like protein 1 (YKL-40). It plays a crucial role in various cellular processes, including cell proliferation, adhesion, and migration, extracellular matrix remodeling, and tissue remodeling.

## External IDs and Aliases ##

- **External IDs -**
    - HGNC: 1948
    - NCBI Entrez Gene: 1116
    - Ensembl Gene: ENSG00000162441
    - OMIM: 601585
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P36222
- **Aliases -** YKL40, GP39, HC-gp39, CHI3L1, and Chitinase-3-Like 1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID ##

- No significant AA mutations have been reported for CHI3L1 gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID ##

- Few somatic SNVs and InDels have been reported for CHI3L1 gene with dbSNP ID rs231806 and rs4950929.

## Related Disease ##

- Elevated levels of CHI3L1 have been linked to various diseases such as:
    - Asthma
    - Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    - Rheumatoid arthritis
    - Inflammatory bowel disease
    - Multiple sclerosis
    - Alzheimer's disease 
    - Cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis ##

- Elevated levels of CHI3L1 have been proposed as a potential biomarker for various diseases. It can be used to monitor disease progression, identify high-risk patients, and assess treatment response.
- Currently, there are no specific treatments available that target CHI3L1 directly.

## Drug Response ##

- Few studies have suggested that CHI3L1 may be a potential therapeutic target for various diseases. However, more research is needed to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of such treatments.

## Related Papers ##

- Author: N. Rathcke et al.
  - Title: "Increased levels of YKL-40 in obese subjects with and without type 2 diabetes: Relationship to oxidative stress"
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2008.10.029

- Author: J.K. Lee et al.
  - Title: "YKL-40, a Chitinase 3-Like Protein, as a Marker for Neurodegenerative Disorders"
  - DOI:  10.1155/2013/692094

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**