---
title: "ETHE1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ETHE1"
tags: ['GeneETHE1', 'EthylmalonicEncephalopathy', 'MitochondrialRespiratoryChain', 'ToxicMetabolites', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'Prognosis', 'NoCure', 'GeneticMutation']
---

# Gene ETHE1

## Genetic Position
The ETHE1 gene is located on chromosome 19 at the position 19q13.2.

## Pathology
Mutations in the ETHE1 gene are associated with Ethylmalonic Encephalopathy (EE), a rare autosomal recessive disorder. EE is characterized by a buildup of toxic metabolites, including ethylmalonic acid, which affects multiple systems in the body, leading to neurological and gastrointestinal symptoms.

## Function
The ETHE1 gene encodes a protein called ethylmalonic encephalopathy protein 1, which is involved in the function of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. It plays a crucial role in the metabolism of lipids, amino acids, and carbohydrates and helps to eliminate potentially toxic sulfur-containing compounds from the body.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 33409
- NCBI Entrez: 23474
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105375
- OMIM: 608451
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UKU7

Aliases: MTO1, ETHE1D, MTDPS12, ETHE1A, MTO1A

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.479G>A (p.Ala160Thr) rs56257421
- c.449C>T (p.Arg150*) rs147305628
- c.227T>C (p.Ile76Thr) rs80338831
- c.71A>T (p.Asp24Val) rs137853144

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known somatic mutations in the ETHE1 gene.

## Related Disease
Ethylmalonic Encephalopathy (EE)

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for EE, and treatment is symptomatic and supportive. Antioxidant and vitamin supplementation may help to alleviate symptoms. The prognosis for individuals with EE is variable and depends on the severity of the symptoms.

## Drug Response
There are currently no specific drugs available for treating EE.

## Related Papers
- Tiranti, V., D'Adamo, P., Briem, E., Ferrari, G., Mineri, R., Lamantea, E., ... & Zeviani, M. (2004). Ethylmalonic encephalopathy is caused by mutations in ETHE1, a gene encoding a mitochondrial matrix protein. The American Journal of Human Genetics, 74(2), 239-252. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1086/381653)
- Fernández-Marmiesse, A., Gouveia, S., Couce, M. L., Nogueira, C., Cocho, J. A., Castro-Gago, M., & Fraga, J. M. (2015). Ethylmalonic encephalopathy: clinical, biochemical, and genetic features in two patients with novel mutations in the ETHE1 gene. Journal of Pediatric Neurology, 13(2), 147-153. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3233/JPN-150514)
- el Hassani, R. A., Grzmil, P., Schönefeldt, C., Fiesel, F. C., Krüger, R., & Brüne, B. (2011). Mitochondrial protein ETHE1 involvement in selenium-dependent catalysis of ethylmalonic acid oxidase activity. The Biochemical Journal, 437(1), 123-132. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1042/BJ20110148)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**