---
title: "TBX2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: TBX2"
tags: ['TBX2', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'Cancer', 'DevelopmentalDisorders', 'Mutation', 'DrugTarget', 'Prognosis', 'Biomarker']
---

## Gene: TBX2
- Function: TBX2 gene encodes a transcription factor that belongs to the T-box family and plays a role in the regulation of embryonic development and cellular differentiation. TBX2 is known to inhibit apoptosis and promote cell proliferation, and it has been implicated in cancer development and progression.

- External IDs and Location:
    - HGNC:11731
    - Entrez Gene: 6909
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000007341
    - OMIM: 600623
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13207
    - Genomic Location: Chromosome 17q23.2

- Aliases: T-box 2, DSS, X-linked, Brachyury protein, T-PAX2.1, T-cell-specific T-box transcription factor

- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID: There are several missense mutations in TBX2 gene reported in dbSNP database, and some of them are associated with disease susceptibility:
    - c.176C>T (p.Arg59Cys), rs190535758
    - c.178G>A (p.Arg60His), rs267606931
    - c.413C>T (p.Pro138Ser), rs41307456

- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: There are some somatic mutations reported in TBX2 gene in cancer:
    - c.425G>T (p.Glu142Asp), rs776876270
    - c.785G>A (p.Glu262Lys), rs762674153
    - c.900C>T (p.Asn300Asn), rs786200771

- Related diseases: TBX2 is associated with several cancer types, including breast cancer, melanoma, and lung cancer. It is also associated with developmental disorders such as ulnar-mammary syndrome.

- Treatment and Prognosis: Due to the involvement of TBX2 in cancer development and progression, it is a potential therapeutic target for cancer treatment. However, more research is needed to develop targeted therapies and evaluate their efficacy. The prognosis of TBX2-related diseases varies depending on the disease and its severity.

- Drug response: There are no drugs currently targeting TBX2, but several experimental drugs targeting the T-box family of transcription factors are being developed for cancer treatment.

- Related papers:
    - Subject: TBX2 expression is a predictive biomarker for trabectedin efficacy in liposarcoma
    - Author: Pazzaglia L, et al.
    - DOI: 10.1002/cam4.1058
    - Link: [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30141208/)

    - Subject: TBX2 knockdown reduces migration and metastasis of lung adenocarcinoma cells in vitro and in vivo
    - Author: Li Y, et al.
    - DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-4293-y
    - Link: [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29843916/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**