---
title: "LAMA4"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: LAMA4"
tags: ['LAMA4', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'RelatedDisease', 'Prognosis', 'MissenseMutation', 'OvarianCancer', 'CMD']
---

## Gene: LAMA4

### Genetic Position
- LAMA4 is located on the long arm of chromosome 6 (6q21-q22.1).

### Pathology 
- LAMA4 gene plays a role in the extracellular matrix of various tissues and organ systems, hence, its mutations or dysregulation can lead to several disorders.
- Some studies indicate a possible association of LAMA4 gene polymorphisms with the progression of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and hepatic fibrosis.

### Function
- LAMA4 gene encodes the alpha-4 chain of laminin-8, a part of the laminin family of glycoproteins responsible for cellular adhesion, differentiation, and migration processes in different tissues. 
- The laminin-8 protein is involved in the formation of basement membrane (a thin layer of extracellular matrix that separates various tissues from each other).

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 6483
- NCBI Entrez ID: 3912
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000112378
- OMIM ID: 600133
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q16363
- Aliases: LAMNA, LAMB1

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Ser46Asn: missense mutation with dbSNP ID rs104886921
- p.Arg358Cys: missense mutation with dbSNP ID rs104886932
- p.Arg426Cys: missense mutation with dbSNP ID rs104886937

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No reported somatic SNVs/InDels in LAMA4 gene.

### Related Disease
- Congenital muscular dystrophy (CMD): LAMA4 mutations are reported in a few cases of CMD 
- Ovarian Cancer: Some research suggests that LAMA4 overexpression is associated with ovarian cancer progression and poor prognosis.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- No specific treatment available for LAMA4-associated rare diseases. However, supportive therapy is provided based on the symptoms and severity of the disease.
- Prognosis depends on the type and severity of the disease.

### Drug response
- No reported data on drug response specific to LAMA4 gene mutations.

### Related Papers
- Subject: LAMA4 gene polymorphisms and hepatic fibrosis progression in NAFLD patients
- Author: Yao X, et al.
- DOI:  10.1080/00365521.2020.1865996

- Subject: LAMA4 expression in ovarian cancer and its association with prognosis 
- Author: Zhang X, et al.
- DOI:  10.1155/2021/6639951

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**