---
title: "LHX3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene LHX3"
tags: ['LHX3', 'PituitaryHormoneDeficiency', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'HormoneReplacementTherapy', 'GeneticDisorder', 'PituitaryDevelopment', 'Mutation', 'HormoneProduction']
---

# Information about Gene LHX3

## Genetic Position
* LHX3 gene is located on Chromosome 9 at position p13.3.
* The genomic coordinates for the LHX3 gene are 33,854,973 to 33,864,700 (GRCh38.p13).

## Pathology
* Loss of function mutations in LHX3 have been associated with Pituitary Hormone Deficiency, Combined, 3 (CPHD3).
* CPHD3 is a rare genetic disorder characterized by insufficient production of pituitary hormones, leading to stunted growth and other symptoms.

## Function
* LHX3 encodes a transcription factor that plays a crucial role in pituitary development and hormone production.
* It is involved in the differentiation and proliferation of pituitary cells, and also regulates the expression of other genes involved in pituitary development and function.

## External IDs and Aliases
* HGNC: 6618
* NCBI Entrez: 402398
* Ensembl: ENSG00000106804
* OMIM: 600577
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O00216
* Aliases: P-Lim, bA131C14.2


## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
* c.578G>A (p.Arg193Gln) - rs104894408
* c.122C>T (p.Arg41Cys) - rs104894409
* c.577C>A (p.Pro193Thr) - rs104894407


## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No known SNVs/InDels in LHX3 have been reported so far.


## Related Disease
* Pituitary Hormone Deficiency, Combined, 3 (CPHD3) is the disease associated with mutations in the LHX3 gene.


## Treatment and Prognosis
* Treatment for CPHD3 involves hormone replacement therapy (HRT) with growth hormone and other pituitary hormones.
* Prognosis depends on the severity of the condition and the age at which the diagnosis is made. With appropriate treatment, many affected individuals can have a normal lifespan.


## Drug Response
No known drug response has been reported for mutations in LHX3.


## Related Papers
* Subject: Molecular mechanisms of pituitary development and disease
  * Author: Eric F. Zhu, Sally Radovick
  * DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4939-9208-0_14)

* Subject: Mutations in LHX3 and HESX1 cause hypopituitarism and hormonal defects in humans
  * Author: Meabh O’Hara, Mehul T. Dattani
  * DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00441-018-2945-8)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**