---
title: "NBAS"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene NBAS"
tags: ['NBAS', 'GeneticPosition', 'Pathology', 'Function', 'Disease', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Mutation']
---

# Information about gene NBAS

## Genetic Position
The NBAS gene is located on chromosomal region 2p24.3.

## Pathology
Mutations in the NBAS gene have been associated with several diseases including short stature, optic nerve atrophy, and Pelger-Huet anomaly. Additionally, mutations in NBAS have been linked to infantile liver failure syndrome (ILFS), a rare genetic condition characterized by acute liver failure in the first year of life. 

## Function
The NBAS gene encodes for the neuroblastoma-amplified sequence protein (NBAS), which plays a role in intracellular transport and endosomal trafficking.

## External IDs and Aliases 

- HGNC: 21050
- NCBI Entrez: 25786
- Ensembl: ENSG00000162655
- OMIM: 614800
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N157

Aliases:
- ILFS4
- NAG
- NBPAS
- NESSyA-BP1
- FACT

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Several missense mutations in the NBAS gene have been identified that are associated with ILFS. These include: 

| Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| -------- | ------------- | -------- |
| c.5225C>T | Missense | rs387906669 |
| c.4958A>G | Missense | rs397508648 |
| c.3083G>A | Missense | rs1064796175 |
| c.4909C>T | Missense | rs754764591 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No information available.

## Related Disease
Mutations in NBAS have been linked to infantile liver failure syndrome (ILFS), a rare genetic condition characterized by acute liver failure in the first year of life. Symptoms typically include jaundice, coagulopathy, and encephalopathy and can lead to multi-organ failure and death in severe cases.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for ILFS, and treatment primarily focuses on supportive care, including blood transfusions and liver transplantation if necessary. The prognosis for individuals with ILFS varies and is often dependent on the severity of the liver damage.

## Drug Response
No information available.

## References
- Haack et al. Infantile liver failure syndrome 4 caused by mutations in the NBAS gene. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2015 Jan;38(1):119-26. doi: 10.1007/s10545-014-9767-0. Epub 2014 May 23. PMID: 24853605.
- Koot et al. 'NBAS pathogenic variants: defining the associated clinical phenotype and expanding the mutational spectrum. Genet Med. 2020 May;22(5):899-908. doi: 10.1038/s41436-019-0703-8. Epub 2020 Jan 17. PMID: 31949100.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**