---
title: "DPM1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene DPM1:"
tags: ['GeneticPosition', 'Pathology', 'ProteinGlycosylation', 'CongenitalDisorders', 'CDG1E', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DPM1Gene']
---

# Information about Gene DPM1:

## Genetic Position:
The gene DPM1 is located on chromosome 20q13.13 and spans approximately 37,787 base pairs.

## Pathology and Function:
The DPM1 gene encodes a protein called dolichol-phosphate mannosyltransferase subunit 1. This protein is involved in the process of protein glycosylation, specifically in the addition of mannose to the dolichol carrier. Congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG), which result from defects in the glycosylation of proteins, have been associated with mutations in the DPM1 gene.

## External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 2991
- NCBI Entrez: 8813
- Ensembl: ENSG00000125826
- OMIM: 603503
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O94777
- Aliases: CDGIE, MPDU1 

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- c.790G>A (p.Arg264His) rs267606909
- c.156G>A (p.Gly52Arg) rs267606910
- c.780G>C (p.Arg260Pro) rs137853958
- c.803G>A (p.Val268Ile) rs267606911

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There are no somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID associated with the DPM1 gene.

## Related Disease:
Mutations in the DPM1 gene have been associated with Congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ie (CDG1E), which is a rare genetic disorder that affects protein glycosylation.

## Treatment and Prognosis:
There is currently no cure for CDG1E and treatment focuses on managing the symptoms of the disorder. Prognosis depends on the severity of symptoms and the age of onset.

## Drug Response:
There is currently no known drug response for mutations in the DPM1 gene.

## Related Papers:
- Ortega-Vila et al. (2020). [8p23 and 20q13.13 copy number gain in a patient with syndromic thrombophilia and cognitive impairment: A case report](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gene.2020.145083).)
- Ćuk et al. (2020). [Dolichol phosphate mannose synthase (DPM1) deficiency in a patient with a novel mutation causing congenital disorder of glycosylation: Molecular characterisation, clinical presentation, and therapeutic perspective](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymgmr.2020.100766).)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**