---
title: "PDE6G"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: PDE6G "
tags: ['PDE6G', 'RetinitisPigmentosa', 'Phototransduction', 'GeneMutation', 'VisualImpairment', 'GeneticInformation', 'EyeDisease', 'CyclicGMPPhosphodiesterase']
---

## Gene: PDE6G 

### 1. Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 17
- Location: q25.3
- Strand: minus
- Genomic position: 80349663-80353948

### 2. Pathology and Function
- Pathology: Mutations or deletion of PDE6G gene are linked to autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa (RP), a degenerative eye disease.
- Function: The PDE6G gene encodes a gamma subunit necessary for the formation of cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase enzyme, a key enzyme in the phototransduction cascade in rod and cone photoreceptor cells of the retina.

### 3. External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 8764
- NCBI Gene ID: 5146
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000108654
- OMIM ID: 600827
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P18545
- Alias: RP40, cGMP phosphodiesterase, cone

### 4. AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- AA Mutation List:
    - p.Asp544Gly
    - p.Gln175Ter
    - p.Cys82Arg
    - p.His105Tyr
- Mutation Type: Missense mutation, nonsense mutation, and substitution
- dbSNP ID: rs1800465, rs28939079, rs1802108, rs80358200

### 5. Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No record found.

### 6. Related Disease
- Autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa

### 7. Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no cure for retinitis pigmentosa. Treatment focuses on managing symptoms and preventing complications, and may include the use of vitamin A supplements, wearing sunglasses to protect the eyes from ultraviolet light, or using adaptive devices for low vision.
- Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the condition, but in most cases, visual impairment and blindness may occur over time.

### 8. Drug Response
- No drugs currently available to treat gene mutation related to retinitis pigmentosa.

### 9. Related Papers
- KÖhler, K., Pervert, G., Mohand-Saïd, S., et al. (2000). Association of mutations in the alpha and beta subunits of the rod cGMP-gated channel with autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa. 
DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1086/302977)
- Schuster, A., Weisschuh, N., Jägle, H., et al. (2016). Next-generation sequencing reveals the mutational landscape of clinically diagnosed Usher syndrome: copy number variations, phenocopies, a predominant target for translational read-through, and PEX26 mutated in Heimler syndrome. 
DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1167/iovs.16-19750)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**