---
title: "AQP2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene AQP2"
tags: ['AQP2', 'WaterChannelProtein', 'NephrogenicDiabetesInsipidus', 'GeneTherapy', 'FluidIntake', 'Dehydration', 'MissenseMutation', 'NDI']
---

# Gene AQP2

## Information

**Gene:** AQP2

**Function:** The AQP2 gene encodes a water channel protein called aquaporin 2. This protein plays a role in regulating water balance in the body by controlling the movement of water in and out of cells in the kidneys.

**External IDs:**

- HGNC ID: 633
- NCBI Entrez ID: 359
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000165029
- OMIM ID: 107777
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P41181

**Genomic Location:** Chromosome 12q13.12

**Aliases:** 

- WCH-CD
- ADHR
- AQP-CD

## Mutations

**AA Mutation List:**

|AA Position | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|------------|---------------|---------------|
| 16 | Missense | rs387906559 |
| 50 | Missense | rs28934573 |
| 88 | Missense | rs28934572 |
| 123 | Missense | rs121912673 |
| 133 | Missense | rs587776861 |

**Somatic SNVs/InDels:** There are currently no known somatic SNVs/InDels in the AQP2 gene.

## Related Disease

Mutations in the AQP2 gene have been linked to nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI), a rare condition where the kidneys are unable to properly reabsorb water. This leads to excessive urination and dehydration.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment for NDI typically involves managing symptoms with fluid intake, medications, and lifestyle changes. In some cases, gene therapy may be a possible treatment option. The prognosis for individuals with NDI varies depending on the severity of the condition and how well it is managed.

## Drug Response

There are currently no known drug response interactions specific to the AQP2 gene.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Molecular basis of autosomal-dominant diabetes insipidus type 2 (AD... 
  - Authors: Tamarappoo BK, Verkman AS
  - DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2362.2001.00841.x
  - Link: [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/11531609/)
- Subject: Oxytocin selectively gates fear responses through distinct outputs from... 
  - Authors: Knobloch HS, Charlet A, Hoffmann LC, Eliava M, Khrulev S, Cetin AH, Osten P, Schwarz MK, Seeburg PH, Stoop R, Grinevich V
  - DOI: 10.1038/nature12636
  - Link: [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24284625/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**