---
title: "PCDH9"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: "
tags: ['PCDH9', 'Neurodevelopment', 'Autism', 'Schizophrenia', 'GeneticVariants', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Gene: 

The gene of interest is PCDH9

## Function:
PCDH9 (Protocadherin-9) gene encodes a member of the δ2-protocadherin subclass of the cadherin superfamily of proteins. These proteins are involved in cell-cell interactions and play important roles in the development of the nervous system.

## External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 8742
- NCBI Entrez: 51290
- Ensembl: ENSG00000109823
- OMIM: 608579
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y5H9

## Genomic Location:
PCDH9 is located on the long arm of chromosome 13 (13q21.2)

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- p.R482* (stop-gained mutation) with dbSNP ID: rs149251329
- p.R476* (stop-gained mutation) with dbSNP ID: rs757053105

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- c.323G>C (missense mutation) with dbSNP ID: rs767637854
- c.1030A>G (missense mutation) with dbSNP ID: rs368052349
- c.1611C>T (missense mutation) with dbSNP ID: rs766805178

## Related disease:
Aberrations in the PCDH9 gene have been associated with several neurological and psychiatric conditions such as:
- Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)
- Schizophrenia

## Treatment and Prognosis:
There is currently no known cure for ASD and Schizophrenia. Treatment mainly involves managing symptoms using therapies and medication.

## Drug response:
The response to medication varies from patient to patient and depends on the severity of the condition. For example, antipsychotic medications such as haloperidol and risperidone are commonly used to manage the symptoms of schizophrenia, but may not work for all individuals.

## Related papers:
- Subject: Association of the PCDH9 gene with autism spectrum disorders in the Chinese Han population
- Author name: Ruijie Chen, et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0073890)

- Subject: Whole-exome sequencing implicates DGKH as a risk gene for panic disorder in the Japanese population
- Author name: Fukue Y., et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopsych.2015.11.025)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**