---
title: "TSC2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene TSC2"
tags: ['TSC2', 'TuberousSclerosisComplex', 'mTORpathway', 'Mutation', 'TumorSuppressor', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticDisorder', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene TSC2

## Gene Information

- **Gene:** TSC2
- **Aliases:** Tuberin, TSC4, PKD1, TMAC, LAM; 
- **Location:** Chromosome 16p13.3

## Function

TSC2 gene provides instructions for making a protein called tuberin. The tuberin protein is involved in the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway, which is a crucial signaling pathway that regulates cell growth and division. The TSC2 protein acts as a tumor suppressor, helping to control cell growth and division, preventing tumor formation.

## External IDs 

- **HGNC:**  Turner syndrome critical region protein 2 
- **NCBI Entrez:** 7249
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000103197
- **OMIM:** 191092
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** P49815

## Mutation Information

Mutations in the TSC2 gene are responsible for Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC2), which is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder. Several AA mutations and somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported in the TSC2 gene that result in disease onset. 

- **AA Mutation list:** R905W, R905L, E1784K, T792I, P1676S, V1408M
- **Mutation type:** Missense mutations 
- **dbSNP ID:** rs121908011, rs121908012, rs267607121, rs768011359, rs797044249, rs113994186, rs121908013

## Related disease 

Mutations in the TSC2 gene cause tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC2), an autosomal dominant genetic disorder. Tuberous sclerosis complex is characterized by the development of noncancerous (benign) tumors in many parts of the body.

## Treatment and Prognosis 

There is no cure for tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC2), and treatment is generally supportive. The severity of the symptoms varies among different patients. Prognosis also depends on the severity of symptoms and varies widely among patients.

## Drug response

The mTOR pathway is a significant target for pharmacological intervention in different disorders. mTOR inhibitors, such as rapamycin and its derivatives, have been tested in clinical trials and have demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of TSC-related conditions.

## Related Papers

- **Author name:** Au KS, Williams AT, Roach ES, Batchelor L, Sparagana SP, Delgado MR, Wheless JW, Baumgartner JE, Roa BB, Wilson CM, Smith-Knuppel TK, Cheung MY, Whittemore VH, King TM, Northrup H; International Tuberous Sclerosis Complex Consensus Group.
- **DOI:**  10.1002/ajmg.a.30112
- **Title:** Genotype/phenotype correlation in 325 individuals referred for a diagnosis of tuberous sclerosis complex in the United States.
- **Journal:** Am J Med Genet A.
- **Year:** 2007

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**