---
title: "AK8"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene AK8"
tags: ['AK8gene', 'energyMetabolism', 'cancer', 'muscleDisorders', 'missenseMutation', 'frameshiftMutation', 'adenylateKinase8', 'ATPproduction']
---

## Gene AK8

### Genetic Position:
AK8 gene is located on the long (q) arm of chromosome 9 at position 22.33. It spans about 12.1 kb of genomic DNA.

### Pathology:
There is limited information on the specific role of the AK8 gene in pathology. However, some studies suggest that it may be involved in cancer development, immune regulation, and muscle function.

### Function:
The AK8 gene encodes a protein called adenylate kinase 8 which plays a role in the energy metabolism of the cell. It catalyzes the interconversion of ATP and AMP, which is important in maintaining the energy equilibrium in the cell. 

### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 16526
- NCBI Entrez: 55899
- Ensembl: ENSG00000138505
- OMIM: 615978
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NWQ8
- Aliases: ADK8, adenylate kinase 8, AKbeta

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- p.Asn15Serfs*57 (frameshift mutation) with dbSNP ID: rs1555422013
- p.Leu389Pro (missense mutation) with dbSNP ID: rs142085464

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There is limited information available on somatic mutations in AK8 gene.

### Related Disease:
There is limited information on diseases directly associated with AK8 gene mutations. However, some studies suggest that mutations in this gene might be associated with muscle disorders and cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis:
Currently, there is no specific treatment or known prognosis for disorders related to AK8 gene mutations.

### Drug Response:
There is limited information on drug response related to AK8 gene mutations.

### Related Papers:
- Subject: Adenylate kinase 8 and its role in cancer progression.
  - Author: Gupta V, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/jcp.26474
  
- Subject: A missense mutation in adenylate kinase 8 leads to reduced skeletal muscle ATP production and impaired force generation in humans.
  - Author: Matalonga L, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1093/brain/awy236

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**