---
title: "CYP2U1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information on Gene CYP2U1"
tags: ['CYP2U1', 'cytochromeP450', 'neurologicaldiseases', 'spasticparaplegia', 'geneticmutations', 'drugmetabolism', 'symptomaticrelief', 'geneticresearch']
---

## Information on Gene CYP2U1

### Genetic Position
The CYP2U1 gene is located on chromosome 4q25. It spans 55,579 base pairs and is oriented on the minus strand.

### Pathology and Function
The CYP2U1 gene encodes for a member of the cytochrome P450 family of proteins. The exact function of the CYP2U1 protein is not yet fully understood, but it is involved in the metabolism of polyunsaturated fatty acids and may play a role in the biosynthesis of cholesterol and steroid hormones. Mutations in this gene have been associated with some neurological diseases such as autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 26257
- NCBI Entrez: 401726
- Ensembl: ENSG00000138685
- OMIM: 609747
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N4P6
- Aliases: DCPF3, P450-IIE1L, CYP2U

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.W236C (rs140729680)
- p.E84K (rs140267418)
- p.A101V (rs137853525)
- p.T477M (rs369266870)
- p.P520S (rs149813920)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known somatic variants for this gene.

### Related Disease
Mutations in the CYP2U1 gene have been associated with autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia is currently limited to symptomatic relief. The prognosis for individuals with this condition varies depending on the severity of the symptoms.

### Drug Response
There is currently limited information on drug response related to mutations in the CYP2U1 gene.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Identification of CYP2U1 as a novel drug metabolism player and its potential role in cancer chemotherapy
  - Author: Zhou, S.
  - DOI: 10.1139/cjpp-2013-0277
- Subject: Clinical and genetic characteristics of four Chinese families with hereditary spastic paraplegia
  - Author: Tang, B.
  - DOI: 10.1186/s12881-017-0496-5

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**