---
title: "ABCA3"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: ABCA3"
tags: ['ABCA3', 'ATPbinding', 'transporter', 'lungsurfactant', 'SMDP3', 'respiratoryfailure', 'corticosteroids', 'hydroxychloroquine']
---

## Gene: ABCA3

### Function
ABCA3 (ATP-binding cassette transporter A3) is an important member of the ABC transporter family, which transports lipids across cellular membranes. ABCA3 plays a crucial role in the transport of phospholipids into the intracellular lamellar bodies of lung tissue, which are necessary for lung surfactant production and function.

### External IDs and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 41
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 21
- Ensembl: ENSG00000092969
- OMIM: 601615
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q99758
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 16q24.3

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- 1676G>A (R559Q): rs147848451
- 2333T>G (Y778X): rs201925058
- 2517G>A (G839D): rs121909338
- 2802C>T (R934X): rs121909339

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No significant somatic variants of ABCA3 have been reported to date.

### Related Disease
Mutations in the ABCA3 gene are associated with a rare autosomal recessive disorder called "surfactant metabolism dysfunction, pulmonary type 3" (SMDP3), which is characterized by progressive respiratory failure in infants.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for SMDP3, and treatment mainly involves supportive care, including respiratory support and infection prevention. Prognosis depends on the severity and progression of the disease and can range from mild respiratory symptoms to fatal respiratory failure.

### Drug Response
There is limited information on drug response in individuals with SMDP3 due to the rarity of the disease. However, studies have shown that corticosteroids and hydroxychloroquine may be beneficial in some patients.

### Related Papers
- **Subject:** "ABCA3 Variations in Childhood Interstitial Lung Disease" 
- **Author Name:** Zhang Y, Jiang M, Huang H,  et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1002/ppul.24806

- **Subject:** "ABCA3 Deficiency: Neonatal Respiratory Distress and Interstitial Lung Disease"
- **Author Name:** Guillot L, Beucher J, Tabary O, et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1378/chest.13-2537

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**