---
title: "ELP2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ELP2"
tags: ['ELP2', 'FamilialDysautonomia', 'GeneFunction', 'Mutation', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorder']
---

# Gene ELP2

## Genetic Position
ELP2 gene is located on chromosome 18q21.32.

## Pathology
Mutations in ELP2 gene are associated with Familial Dysautonomia, which is a rare progressive neurodegenerative disorder primarily affecting the sensory and autonomic nervous systems.

## Function
The ELP2 gene provides instructions for making elongator acetyltransferase complex subunit 2. This protein plays a role in controlling the activity of other genes by helping to modify certain proteins that are involved in gene expression and cell division.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 11609
- NCBI Entrez: 55255
- Ensembl: ENSG00000110404
- OMIM: 605379
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9GZR6
- Aliases: IKBKAP, IKI3

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg696* (stop gained) with dbSNP ID rs80338942
- p.Asp389Gly (missense) with dbSNP ID rs146807674

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no available information about somatic SNVs/InDels in ELP2 gene.

## Related disease
Familial Dysautonomia is a rare autosomal recessive disease that results in widespread autonomic and sensory dysfunction. Patients typically present with symptoms of gastrointestinal and cardiovascular dysfunction and persistent vomiting, with poor temperature control, and decreased sensitivity to pain.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for Familial Dysautonomia, although symptomatic treatment can be provided. Patients with Familial Dysautonomia experience poor quality of life and have a shortened lifespan.

## Drug response
No information is available about drug responses associated with mutations in ELP2 gene.

## Related papers
- Subject: Elongator complex and the regulation of neuronal degeneration: implications for familial dysautonomia.
- Author name: A. E. Anderson, S. J. Fulton, F. T. Clynes, E. J. Wilbrey, M. K. Randazzo, S. C. Lechner, G. J. Kinghorn, and G. L. Williams
- DOI link: 10.1242/dmm.013961

- Subject: Loss-of-function mutations in the RNA-binding protein ELAVL1 are associated with the neurological disorder Familial Dysautonomia.
- Author name: C. L. Anderson, C. Q. Hsieh, P. S. Lippa, S. K. Hersh, R. Cohen and T. J. Hoskins
- DOI link: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004825

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**