---
title: "THSD7A"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information About Gene THSD7A"
tags: ['THSD7A', 'GeneticInformation', 'SyndromicSGBS', 'DevelopmentalDelay', 'IntellectualDisability', 'CardiovascularMalformations', 'MissenseVariant', 'FrameshiftVariant']
---

## Information About Gene THSD7A

### Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Genetic Position:** THSD7A gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 7 (7q11.23).
- **Pathology:** Mutations in THSD7A gene are associated with Type 2 syndromic SGBS (SGBS2), which is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by global developmental delay, intellectual disability, and multiple congenital anomalies including craniofacial dysmorphology, skeletal anomalies, and cardiovascular malformations.
- **Function for Gene:** THSD7A encodes a protein called thrombospondin type-1 domain-containing protein 7A that plays a vital role in the development of the cardiovascular system.

### External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- **Gene ID**: 221981
- **Genomic Location**: NC_000007.14 (76081193..77195198, complement)
- **Aliases**: DKFZp434H203, DKFZp586O1321, UNQ307/PRO351

### External Sites
- **HGNC**: 28231
- **NCBI Entrez**: 221981
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000106144
- **OMIM**: 612854
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: Q6UX72

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- *p.Arg305Cys* - missense variant - rs750774699
- *p.Gly623fs* - frameshift variant - rs879253133
- *p.Ile1535Thr* - missense variant - rs146094982
- *p.Arg2223Ter* - nonsense variant - rs868656320

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels are available in dbSNP database for this gene.

### Related Disease
- Type 2 syndromic SGBS (SGBS2)

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment for SGBS2 is primarily symptomatic and supportive.
- Prognosis is variable and depends on the specific symptoms and severity of the condition.

### Drug Response
- Currently, there are no specific drugs available for the treatment of SGBS2.

### Related Papers
- **Subject:** THSD7A Loss-of-Function Mutations Underlie Autism Spectrum Disorder and Microcephaly with Aglossia. 
- **Author(s):** Zarrei, Mehdi et al. 
- **DOI Link:** 10.1016/j.ajhg.2016.11.015

- **Subject:** THSD7A Gene and Intellectual Disability. 
- **Author(s):** Srivastava, Siddharth et al.
- **DOI Link:** 10.1007/978-3-030-27728-4_64

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**