---
title: "SLC22A5"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SLC22A5"
tags: ['SLC22A5', 'CarnitineUptakeDeficiency', 'TransporterProtein', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'ClinicalSpectrum']
---

# Information about Gene SLC22A5

## Genetic Position
The gene SLC22A5 is located on the chromosome 5q31.1 and consists of 8 exons.

## Pathology
Mutations in the SLC22A5 gene can cause carnitine uptake deficiency (CUD), which leads to the inability of cells to take up carnitine from the blood. This results in a buildup of toxic byproducts in the body, causing symptoms such as muscle weakness, cardiac and liver problems, and an enlarged heart.

## Function for Gene
The SLC22A5 gene encodes a protein called OCTN2, which is a transporter protein involved in the uptake of carnitine into cells. This protein plays an essential role in the use of fatty acids for energy production in the body.

## External IDs
- Gene: SLC22A5
- Genomic Location: 5q31.1
- Aliases: CT1, OCTN2

## External Sites
- HGNC: 10953
- NCBI Entrez: 6582
- Ensembl: ENSG00000120888
- OMIM: 603377
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H015

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.760C>T, p.Arg254Trp (rs140121121)
- c.1397G>A, p.Arg466Gln (rs765522/C88S)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs72804892
- rs188686587
- rs752152665

## Related Disease
Carnitine uptake deficiency (CUD)

## Treatment and Prognosis
Patients with CUD can be treated with carnitine supplementation to reduce symptoms and improve prognosis. However, the response to treatment varies among patients.

## Drug Response
SLC22A5 is involved in the transport of various drugs, including a few anticancer agents like tegafur. Genetic variations in SLC22A5 can affect drug response and cause adverse drug reactions.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Molecular cloning of an organic cation transporter from human kidney
- Author: Tamai I, Ohashi R, Nezu JI, et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/384047a0)

- Subject: Carnitine uptake defects: A review on the molecular basis, clinical spectrum, treatment, and outcome
- Author: Magoulas PL, El-Hattab AW.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbmt.2017.07.008)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**