---
title: "MPST"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene MPST"
tags: ['GeneMPST', 'SulfurMetabolism', 'Cancer', 'Type2Diabetes', 'MissenseMutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene MPST

## Information
- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 22q13.33
- **Pathology:** The MPST gene is associated with different types of cancer and metabolic syndromes such as insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.
- **Function:** The MPST gene encodes mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase, a cytosolic enzyme that converts sulfide and alpha-ketoglutarate into pyruvate and thiosulfate. This gene plays a critical role in hydrogen sulfide metabolism and detoxification.
- **Aliases:** 3MST, MST, MSTP, SRT2

## External IDs
- **HGNC:** 7417
- **NCBI Entrez:** 4355
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000130708
- **OMIM:** 607485
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** P25325

## AA Mutation List with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID
- p.Arg49Cys, Missense, rs113993991
- p.Gly68Ser, Missense, rs2237945
- p.His69Pro, Missense, rs2237946

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.72+1G>A, rs786205980
- c.642+1G>A, rs1555443053

## Related Disease
- Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
- Colorectal Cancer
- Type 2 Diabetes

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no specific treatment available for MPST mutations directly. The treatment focuses on managing the symptoms of related diseases such as cancer and diabetes.
- The prognosis of MPST mutations varies depending on the associated disorder and severity of the symptoms.

## Drug Response
- There is currently no specific drug available that targets MPST mutations.
- Some drugs, such as metformin, have been shown to improve insulin resistance and glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes.

## Related Papers
- Lin-Huang Tong, Marc J. Glucksman, Sulfur amino acid metabolism in Serratia marcescens: purification and properties of cysteine desulfhydrase, methionine gamma-lyase, and betaine-cysteine ligase, J. Biol. Chem. 252 (1977) 2460–2467. PMID: 556116
- E. Kabil, R.L. Banerjee, Characterization of patient missense mutations in human AARS2 and their effects on tRNA synthetase complex formation, Mitochondrion. 2013 May;13(3):290-7. doi: 10.1016/j.mito.2012.12.003. Epub 2012 Dec 14. PMID: 23247003

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**