---
title: "PRLR"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Name: PRLR"
tags: ['PRLR', 'GeneticInformation', 'ReceptorProtein', 'BreastCancer', 'ProstateCancer', 'DrugResponse', 'Mutation', 'Treatment']
---

# Gene Name: PRLR

## Genomic location and aliases
- Chromosome: 5
- Genomic location: 5p13.1
- Gene ID: 5618
- NCBI Entrez External ID: [5618](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/5618))
- Ensembl External ID: [ENSG00000171862](https://www.ensembl.org/Homo_sapiens/Gene/Summary?db=core;g=ENSG00000171862;r=5:41382428-41414240))
- HGNC External ID: 9467
- Other Aliases: PRL-R, PRL/GRF/IA receptor, prolactin receptor

## Function
The PRLR gene encodes for a transmembrane receptor protein called prolactin receptor which plays a crucial role in the regulation of lactation and reproduction. It is also known to have an effect on immune system development and behavior modulation.

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There is a list of amino acid mutations in the PRLR gene, including the following:
- Glu360Ala (rs1805048)
- Leu118Val (rs17132720)
- Ser349Cys (rs17132721)
- Ala162Val (rs4648098)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been associated with breast cancer risk and have been reported in the PRLR gene. These include the following:
- rs2494251
- rs10472828
- rs10922979

## Related diseases
Dysregulation of PRLR gene expression or its signaling has been linked to various conditions such as breast cancer, prostate cancer, endometriosis, and male infertility.

## Treatment and prognosis
Blocking PRLR signaling has shown some potential for treating breast cancer and prostate cancer. However, more research is needed for the development of clinically effective treatments targeting this gene.

## Drug response
In a study, it was found that PRLR signaling blockade can increase the response to anticancer drugs like docetaxel in breast cancer patients. The exact role of PRLR in drug response requires further exploration.

## Related papers
- Kang, Y. J. et al. (2015). Functional characterization of E126Q mutation in prolactin receptor associated with hyperprolactinemia. Endocrine, 50(1), 203–211. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12020-015-0590-3)
- Mateo, J., et al. (2020). A Framework to Assess the Clinical Benefit of Cancer Treatment Using Overall Survival and Utility Values from Patients with Advanced Prostate Cancer. The Oncologist, 26(6), e970–e979. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1634/theoncologist.2019-0892)
- Jenny, M., et al. (2020). Mechanisms Enhancing Anticancer Drug Response in Advanced Breast Cancer. Frontiers in Cell and Development Biology, 8, 1098. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3389/fcell.2020.565981)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**