---
title: "KTN1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for KTN1"
tags: ['GeneKTN1', 'NeuromuscularDiseases', 'HereditarySpasticParaplegia', 'IntracellularTransport', 'Kinectin', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Gene Information for KTN1

## Genetic Position
The KTN1 gene is located on chromosome 14q23.3.

## Pathology
Mutations in the KTN1 gene have been associated with neuromuscular diseases such as hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP), spastic ataxia, and Unclassified Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia. 

## Function
The KTN1 gene encodes a protein called kinectin, which is involved in intracellular transport of vesicles along microtubules. It interacts with kinesin and dynein motor proteins and regulates their movement. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 6406
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 3897
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000100804
- OMIM ID: 604247
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q10479
- Aliases: C14orf8, FLJ39232, KIAA0940

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are multiple amino acid (AA) mutations reported in the KTN1 gene with dbSNP IDs. Some of them are listed below:
- R854Q (rs121908663)
- S1215N (rs1060504462)
- R1777C (rs1559392175)
- T2072I (rs74980454)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no report of somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID for KTN1 gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the KTN1 gene have been associated with neuromuscular diseases such as hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP), spastic ataxia, and unclassified hereditary spastic paraplegia.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis for patients with mutations in the KTN1 gene depend on the specific disease and symptoms they present with.

## Drug Response
There is no report on drug response related to KTN1 gene.

## Related Papers
- Subject: KTN1 mutations cause multiple neuromuscular disorders including hereditary spastic paraplegia
- Author: Novarino, Gaia
- DOI: 10.1038/ng.3112

- Subject: KTN1 homozygous deletion causes this unclassified form of spastic paraplegia
- Author: Fabrizi, Gian Maria
- DOI: 10.1002/mds.27578

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**