---
title: "UGT1A7"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['UGT1A7', 'UDPglucuronosyltransferase', 'DrugMetabolism', 'Disease', 'Mutation', 'Pharmacokinetics', 'DrugResponse', 'Treatment']
---

## Gene Information

### Gene: UGT1A7

**Function:** The UGT1A7 gene encodes a UDP-glucuronosyltransferase enzyme which catalyzes the transfer of glucuronic acid to endogenous and exogenous compounds, including steroids, bile acids, drugs, and environmental pollutants, to facilitate their excretion from the body.

**External IDs:** 
- Gene ID: 54658
- Genomic Location: Chr2: 234,252,116-234,315,643
- Aliases: UDPGT, UGT1A7v1, UGT1A7v2, UGT1A7v3

**External Sites:**
- HGNC: 12575
- NCBI Entrez: 54658
- Ensembl: ENSG00000136237
- OMIM: 606421
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HAW8

**AA Mutation List:**

Mutation Type | AA Mutation | dbSNP ID
--- | --- | ---
Missense | R131K | rs28365064
Missense | R131W | rs28365063
Missense | N129S | rs107615277
Missense | D219A | rs28365065

**Somatic SNV/InDels:**

dbSNP ID | Mutation Type
--- | --- 
rs28365064 | Missense
rs28365063 | Missense

**Related Disease:**

The UGT1A7 gene has been implicated in multiple diseases, including cancer, inflammatory bowel disease, and liver disease.

**Treatment and Prognosis:**

Treatment plans for diseases related to UGT1A7 deficiency vary depending on the specific disease and its severity. In some cases, symptom management may be the only option. In others, medication or surgical intervention may be necessary. The prognosis also varies depending on the disease and its progression.

**Drug Response:**

The function of the UGT1A7 enzyme in drug metabolism means that various drugs can affect its activity. For example, certain drugs may induce or inhibit UGT1A7 activity, leading to altered pharmacokinetics and drug responses. Specific examples include sulfonylureas and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), which are metabolized by UGT1A7 and can affect its activity.

**References:**

1. Bhutia YD, et al. (2017). Uridine Adenosine Tetraphosphate-Induced Glucuronidation Catalyzed by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1A1 and 1A7 in Human Head and Neck Cancer: Identification of Novel Drug Targets for Treatment and Prevention. Biochemical Pharmacology, 142: 170-183. DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2017.06.115
2. Tukey RH and Strassburg CP (2000). Human UDP-glucuronosyltransferases: Metabolism, Expression, and Disease. Annual Review of Pharmacology and Toxocology, 40: 581-616. DOI: 10.1146/annurev.pharmtox.40.1.581

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**