---
title: "SLC9A9"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: SLC9A9"
tags: ['SLC9A9', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'ADHD', 'Autism', 'BipolarDisorder', 'GeneticVariations', 'ProtonTransporter', 'PersonalizedTreatment']
---

# Gene: SLC9A9

## Genetic Position
The gene SLC9A9 is located on the long arm of chromosome 3 at position 24.2.

## Pathology 
The variations in the SLC9A9 genes are related to various disorders. The defects in this gene lead to ADHD, autism, OCD, bipolar disorders and more among others.

## Function
The SLC9A9 gene encodes a protein that belongs to the solute carrier family. These transporter proteins move ions and molecules across the cell membrane in different directions. The protein encoded by SLC9A9 specifically transports protons across cell membranes.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 19315
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 80235
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000184723
- OMIM ID: 608682
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q5T2W1
- Aliases: KIAA0705, NHE9

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.2753G>A; p.Glu918Lys; rs145301058
- c.2057T>G; p.Leu686Arg; rs767079837
- c.2245G>A; p.Arg749His; rs369729444

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs913820

## Related Disease
Variations in SLC9A9 are associated with many neurological and behavioral disorders, including ADHD, OCD, autism, and bipolar disorder.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment for the genetic changes in the SLC9A9 gene, but symptomatic treatment and therapies are available for related neurological disorders.

## Drug Response
The medication response for neurological disorders like ADHD, autism and bipolar disorder differs from person to person. Therefore, a personalized approach is necessary.

## Related Papers
- Subject: ADHD genetics, current understanding and prospects.
  - Author: Erdoğan S, Ozata B, Oguzkan S, Kösüş N, Yurteri N
  - DOI: 10.1007/s00213-013-3141-1
  
- Subject: Copy number variation and psychiatric disease risk.
  - Author: Craddock N, Owen MJ
  - DOI: 10.1101/cshperspect.a012026
  
- Subject: SLC9A9 gene and ADHD susceptibility.
  - Author: Rivera M, Kim CJ, Liang Y, Silver M, Chung WK
  - DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.b.30810

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**