---
title: "PKD1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: PKD1"
tags: ['PKD1', 'ADPKD', 'PolycysticKidneyDisease', 'GeneticMutation', 'Tolvaptan', 'KidneyFailure', 'CystFormation', 'VasopressinAntagonist']
---

# Gene: PKD1

## Gene Information

- **Function:** The PKD1 gene provides instructions for making a protein called polycystin-1, which is found in the primary cilia of cells. This protein functions as a receptor and channel that helps to maintain the structure and function of cilia in various organs, including the kidneys, liver, pancreas, and reproductive organs.

- **External IDs and Aliases:**
      - HGNC: 9025
      - NCBI Entrez Gene: 5310
      - Ensembl: ENSG00000008710
      - OMIM: 601313
      - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P98161

- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 16p13.3

## Mutations and SNVs

- **AA Mutation List:** Several mutations in the PKD1 gene can cause autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). Some of the common mutations include:
      - Cys3185Arg (rs74315526)
      - Arg4227Pro (rs121917782)
      - Leu3922Arg (rs28933990)
- **Mutation Type:** Missense mutations
- **dbSNP IDs:** rs74315526, rs121917782, rs28933990 

## Related Diseases
- **ADPKD:** PKD1 mutations can cause ADPKD, a common genetic disorder that affects the kidneys. It is characterized by the formation of multiple cysts in the kidneys, which gradually enlarge and can cause kidney failure. ADPKD can also affect other organs, such as the liver, pancreas, and spleen.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no cure for ADPKD, but treatment can help to manage symptoms and slow down the progression of the disease. Treatment may include medications to control blood pressure and manage pain, as well as surgery to drain cysts and, in some cases, remove the affected organs (such as the kidney). The prognosis for ADPKD varies depending on the severity of the disease and the age of onset. In some cases, ADPKD can lead to end-stage renal disease (ESRD), which may require dialysis or kidney transplantation.

## Drug Response
- Tolvaptan, a vasopressin V2 receptor antagonist, has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of ADPKD. It can slow down the progression of the disease and improve kidney function by reducing the formation and growth of cysts in the kidneys.

## Related Paper
- **Subject:** Genetics, Pathogenesis, and Therapies for Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease
- **Author:** Vicente E. Torres
- **DOI:** 10.1681/ASN.2016060639

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**