---
title: "FOXE3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for FOXE3"
tags: ['FOXE3', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'EyeDevelopment', 'CongenitalCataracts', 'Mutation', 'GeneticDisease', 'TreatmentOptions', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Gene Information for FOXE3

## Overview
FOXE3 is a gene that encodes for the forkhead box E3 transcription factor, which plays a crucial role in the development of the lens of the eye. Mutations in the FOXE3 gene have been linked to various ocular diseases, including congenital cataracts, microphthalmia, and anterior segment mesenchymal dysgenesis.

## Function
The transcription factor encoded by FOXE3 is involved in the development and differentiation of lenses in the eye. It regulates the expression of various genes required for lens development, including crystallin genes and other transcription factors.

## External IDs and Location

- Gene ID: 2301
- Genomic Location: chromosome 1q32.2
- Aliases: FKHL12, IHG-5, IHG5, FREAC5

## External Sites
- HGNC: 3806
- NCBI Entrez: 2301
- Ensembl: ENSG00000117452
- OMIM: 601094
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13461

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Val109Ile, missense variant, rs142013874
- p.Glu105Lys, missense variant, rs104894180
- p.Arg63*, nonsense variant, rs372953611

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No entry found with dbSNP ID

## Related Disease
- Cataract 33, multiple types (CTRCT33; OMIM: 610202)
- Cataract 18, autosomal recessive (CTRCT18; OMIM: 610019)
- Anterior segment mesenchymal dysgenesis (ASMD; OMIM: 107250)

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for inherited cataracts. In some cases, surgery may be performed to remove cataracts. However, treatment options may vary depending on the underlying cause of the disease.

## Drug Response
No entry found

## Related Papers
- Title: FOXC1 and FOXE3 mutations in subjects with congenital cataract and hearing loss
  - Subject: Early onset cataracts and hearing loss
  - Author: Sirmaci et al.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s00439-010-0848-0
- Title: Mutation analysis of 12 genes in Chinese families with congenital cataracts
  - Subject: Congenital cataracts
  - Author: Wang et al.
  - DOI: 10.1186/1471-2350-14-46

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**