---
title: "DCX"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene DCX"
tags: ['DCXgene', 'neurologicaldisorders', 'braindevelopment', 'doublecortin', 'mutation', 'somaticvariants', 'treatment', 'prognosis']
---

## Gene DCX

### Genetic Position
The DCX gene is located on the X chromosome in humans and it spans 91,207 base pairs.

### Pathology
Mutations in the DCX gene have been associated with abnormalities in brain development, including lissencephaly, subcortical band heterotopia, and double cortex syndrome.

### Function
The DCX gene codes for a protein called doublecortin, which plays a critical role in neuronal migration and differentiation in the developing brain.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 2631
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 1641
- Ensembl: ENSG00000102103
- OMIM: 300121
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O43602
- Alias: DC, LISX, SCLH

### AA Mutation List
- R186Q, rs104894066
- R40C, rs104894067
- D311N, rs137853913
- H256N, rs137853914
- R220C, rs267608427

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
- rs146524216
- rs771372625

### Related Disease
Mutations in the DCX gene have been associated with several neurological disorders, including lissencephaly, subcortical band heterotopia, and double cortex syndrome.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for DCX-associated disorders, and treatment focuses on managing the symptoms of the specific condition. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disorder.

### Drug Response
There is limited information regarding drug response for DCX-related disorders.

### Related Papers
- Des Portes, V., Pinard, J. M., Billuart, P., Vinet, M. C., Koulakoff, A., Carrié, A., ... & Chelly, J. (1998). A novel CNS gene required for neuronal migration and involved in X-linked subcortical band heterotopia and lissencephaly syndrome. Cell, 92(1), 51-61. DOI: 10.1016/S0092-8674(00)80899-5
- Gleeson, J. G. (2000). Clinical heterogeneity and molecular mechanisms in genetically defined subtypes of lissencephaly. In Seminars in medicine of the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (Vol. 320, No. 1, pp. 35-48). NIH Public Access. PMID: 10619726

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**