---
title: "TENC1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene TENC1"
tags: ['TENC1', 'Phosphatase', 'IntracellularSignaling', 'MissenseMutations', 'SomaticMutations', 'BreastCancer', 'OvarianCancer', 'CellMigration']
---

## Gene TENC1

### Genetic Position

Chromosome: 7

Location: q21.2

### Function

The TENC1 gene encodes a protein known as tensin like C1 domain-containing phosphatase (TLCP). TLCP functions as a phosphatase and plays a key role in modulating intracellular signaling pathways. It has been shown to regulate processes such as cell migration, proliferation, and adhesion.

### External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location

**Gene ID:** 80338

**Aliases:** C7orf14, KIAA0264, TEN2

**HGNC ID:** HGNC:17228

**Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000175143

**OMIM ID:** 611370

**UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** Q2TBF6

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are several missense mutations reported in the TENC1 gene. The following are some of them:

|AA mutation|Mutation type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|Arg712Cys|Missense|rs757787726|
|Asn771Ser|Missense|rs757575057|
|Ala950Val|Missense|rs371545369|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are several somatic mutations reported in the TENC1 gene. The following are some of them:

|SNV/InDel|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|
|c.2959C>T|rs1553378741|
|c.664C>T|rs146253885|
|c.5065G>A|rs12132351|

### Related Disease

There are no known diseases associated with mutations in the TENC1 gene.

### Treatment and Prognosis

There is no specific treatment or prognosis associated with mutations in the TENC1 gene as there are no reported diseases associated with mutations in this gene.

### Drug Response

There is no known drug response associated with mutations in the TENC1 gene as there are no reported diseases associated with mutations in this gene.

### Related Papers

- **Subject:** Molecular mechanisms of phosphatase activity of TENC1, a phosphatase-inactive tensin homologue tumor suppressor
- **Author:** Dmitry S. Bilan et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1039/C7SC01183C

- **Subject:** Somatic mutations in breast and serous ovarian cancer young patients: A systematic review
- **Author:** Ana Gabriela Severino et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1016/j.ygyno.2019.09.026

- **Subject:** The Focal Adhesion-Localized CdGAP Regulates Cancer Cell Migration and Invasion
- **Author:** Daizo Koinuma et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1371/journal.pone.0032129

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**