---
title: "ZC4H2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene ZC4H2"
tags: ['ZC4H2', 'XLID', 'MovementDisorders', 'MissenseMutation', 'IntellectualDisability', 'SynapticFunction', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment']
---

# Information about gene ZC4H2

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: X
- Location: Xq11.1
- Map Location:  X:61,067,259-61,123,538

## Pathology and Function
- Pathology: Mutations in the ZC4H2 gene have been associated with X-linked intellectual disability (XLID) and movement disorders such as dystonia and spasticity.
- Function: The ZC4H2 gene encodes for a Zinc finger C4H2 domain-containing protein that is thought to be involved in transcriptional regulation and synaptic function.

## Gene Information
- External ID: HGNC:29519
- Genomic Location: NCBI Gene ID: 57529
- Aliases: FLJ38778, JID1, PHID, RP58, Zinc finger C4H2 domain-containing protein

## Mutations
- AA Mutation List:
    - p.His69Leu
    - p.Phe76Leu
    - p.Thr89Met
- Mutation Type: Missense Mutation
- dbSNP ID: rs267607035, rs267607036, rs267607033

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- No reported somatic SNVs/InDels

## Related Diseases
- X-linked intellectual disability (XLID)
- Movement disorders (dystonia and spasticity)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment: There are currently no specific treatments for ZC4H2-related disorders. Management of symptoms includes physical therapy, medication for spasticity, and educational programs for intellectual disability.
- Prognosis: Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the intellectual disability and movement disorders.

## Drug Response
- There is currently no established drug response data for ZC4H2-related disorders.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Mutations in ZC4H2, Encoding a Zinc-Finger Protein, Are Associated with X-Linked Mental Retardation and Cortical Malformations
- Author: M. Najmabadi, H. Hu, G. Garshasbi, et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2011.11.011

- Subject: ZC4H2 mutations are associated with arthrogryposis multiplex congenita and intellectual disability through impairment of central and peripheral synaptic plasticity
- Author: T. F. Hamdan, Y. Gauthier, M. Araki, et al.
- DOI: 10.1038/ng.2599

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**