---
title: "SLC3A1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: SLC3A1"
tags: ['SLC3A1', 'Cystinuria', 'GeneticAnalysis', 'TransporterProtein', 'KidneyStones', 'Thiola', 'Dpenicillamine', 'TreatmentOptions']
---

## Gene: SLC3A1

### Genetic Position:
SLC3A1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 2 (2p12), from base pair 78,990,073 to base pair 79,095,920.

### Pathology:
SLC3A1 encodes a protein named cystine/glutamate transporter (system xc−), which plays a crucial role in the exchange of cystine and glutamate between cells. Mutations in SLC3A1 can lead to cystinuria, which is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by the formation of cystine stones within the urinary tract.

### Function:
The SLC3A1 gene encodes for a subunit of a transporter protein in the kidney and intestinal cells. The protein facilitates the renal clearance of cystine and other dibasic amino acids by the exchange of positively charged amino acids with cystine which, when in excess, can form kidney stones. 

### External IDs:
- HGNC: 11008
- NCBI Entrez: 6562
- Ensembl: ENSG00000115880
- OMIM: 104614
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P08195

### AA Mutation List:
- p.Gly318Arg (rs12725489) Pathogenic
- p.Arg270Cys (rs61749376) Pathogenic
- p.Pro543Ser (rs150497724) Uncertain
- p.Thr211Pro (rs121908634) Uncertain
- p.Arg391Cys (rs121908633) Uncertain

### Somatic SNVs/InDels:
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels reported in SLC3A1 gene. However, none of them is currently associated with any significant disease or phenotype.

### Related Disease:
SLC3A1 mutations are associated with cystinuria, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a high concentration of the amino acid cystine in the urine, leading to the formation of cystine stones in the kidney, ureter, and bladder.

### Treatment and Prognosis:
The treatment of cystinuria depends on the size and location of stones, age of the patient, and the number of previous stone episodes. Fluid intake helps reduce the formation of stones. The patients can be treated with medications for dissolving stones such as Thiola and D-penicillamine. Surgical interventions like ureteroscopy, percutaneous nephrolithotomy and shock wave lithotripsy can also be performed if medication therapy is not effective. There is no cure for cystinuria, but the vast majority of patients can lead normal lives with appropriate monitoring and treatment.

### Drug Response:
Thiola (tiopronin) and D-penicillamine are the two commonly used drugs for the treatment of cystinuria. Besides these, other drugs such as potassium citrate and allopurinol are also used in some cases. 

### Subject:
Genetic analysis of cystinuria in humans

### Author Name(s):
Font-Llitjós M., Jiménez-Vidal M., Bisceglia L., Di Perna M., de Sanctis L., Rousaud F., Zelante L., Palacín M., Nunes V.

### DOI Link(s):
[Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1399-0004.2011.01678.x)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**