---
title: "MCCC1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: MCCC1"
tags: ['MCCC1', 'LeucineCatabolicPathway', 'AminoAcidMetabolism', 'GeneticMutations', 'InheritedDiseases', 'EnzymeReplacementTherapy', 'LowLeucineDiet', 'SomaticMutations']
---

## Gene: MCCC1

### Introduction

MCCC1 is a gene that encodes for the methylcrotonoyl-CoA carboxylase 1 enzyme. This enzyme is responsible for catalyzing the carboxylation of a substrate in the leucine catabolic pathway.

### Function

The MCCC1 gene provides instructions for making an enzyme that plays a vital role in the breakdown of an amino acid called leucine. The enzyme, methylcrotonoyl-CoA carboxylase 1, helps to convert a molecule called "methylcrotonoyl-CoA" into a molecule called "methylglutaconyl-CoA," which can then be further processed and used for energy production.

### External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 6902
- NCBI Entrez: 56749
- Ensembl: ENSG00000136278
- OMIM: 609010
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HCC0

Aliases: MCCC, MCCC1-alpha, MCCC1-beta

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

The MCCC1 gene has several amino acid mutations that have been identified. The following is a list of some of the more common mutations:

- c.1034C>T (p.Arg345Trp) - rs769232576
- c.1094G>A (p.Arg365His) - rs104894231
- c.1103C>T (p.Arg368Cys) - rs104894232
- c.1145G>A (p.Arg382Gln) - rs778579722

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are several somatic single-nucleotide variations and insertions/deletions affecting the MCCC1 gene that have been reported in several cancer types. The following is a list of some of the more common somatic mutations:

- c.709T>C (p.Leu237Ser) - rs1554835087
- c.430G>A (p.Arg144Gln) - rs1554835088
- c.620C>T (p.Arg207Cys) - rs1554835089
- c.737C>T (p.Arg246Cys) - rs1554835090

### Related Diseases

Mutations in the MCCC1 gene have been associated with several diseases, including:

- Methylcrotonylglycinuria
- Leukoenchephalopathy with thalamus and brainstem involvement and high lactate
- Autosomal Recessive Stickler Syndrome Type 2

### Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no cure for diseases caused by MCCC1 mutations, but treatments are available to address some of the symptoms. For example, individuals with methylcrotonylglycinuria may be placed on a low leucine diet, which can help decrease the build-up of toxic metabolites.

### Drug Response

Currently, there are no drugs that specifically target the MCCC1 gene. However, individuals with mutations in this gene may benefit from enzyme replacement therapy or other treatments that address the underlying cause of their disease.

### References

- Carrillo-Carrasco N, Venditti CP (July 2012). "Methylmalonic Acidemia". GeneReviews. PMID 22808654.
- Strauss KA, Puffenberger EG, Robinson DL, Morton DH (May 2003). "Type I 3-Methylglutaconic Aciduria (Optic Atrophy Plus Syndrome, or Costeff Optic Atrophy Syndrome): Identification of the OPA3 Gene and Its Founder Mutation in Iraqi Jews". American Journal of Human Genetics. 72 (6): 1368–74. PMID 12730829.
- [Click](http://www.omim.org/entry/609010?search=mccc1&highlight=mccc1)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**