---
title: "CBX2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene CBX2"
tags: ['GeneCBX2', 'PolycombGroupProteins', 'Cancer', 'NeurodevelopmentalAnomalies', 'Mutation', 'ChromatinStructure', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene CBX2

**Genetic Position:**
The gene CBX2 is located on the chromosome 17 at the position 17q25.3.

**Pathology:**
Mutations in the gene CBX2 have been associated with several types of cancers such as ovarian, colorectal, lung, and breast. Also, alterations in the gene CBX2 have been linked to neurodevelopmental anomalies.

**Function:**
The CBX2 gene encodes for a protein that belongs to the Polycomb group (PcG) family of proteins. This family of proteins is involved in the regulation of gene expression by modifying chromatin structure. CBX2 helps in the formation of a complex with other PcG proteins that binds to specific regions of DNA and suppresses the expression of genes involved in developmental processes.

**External IDs and Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 1766
    - NCBI Entrez: 8535
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000174262
    - OMIM: 603758
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P78364
    - Aliases: CBX2B, M33, HP1Hsa, HP1-beta

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
A missense mutation (p.R55W) in CBX2 has been identified in a patient with neurodevelopmental anomalies. This mutation is reported in dbSNP with the ID: rs767579882.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
Several single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and insertion-deletion (InDel) mutations have been reported in CBX2 gene in different types of cancers. Some of these mutations are:
- rs41394370
- rs186256017
- rs267607156
- rs281864525

**Related Disease:**
The mutations in CBX2 have been linked to several diseases such as:
- Ovarian Cancer
- Colorectal Cancer
- Lung Cancer
- Breast Cancer
- Neurodevelopmental Anomalies

**Treatment and Prognosis:**
There is no known specific treatment for CBX2 mutations. Treatment depends on the type and stage of cancer. The prognosis of cancer patients with mutations in CBX2 may depend on several factors such as the type and stage of cancer, the age and general health of the patient, and the presence of additional mutations.

**Drug response:**
Currently, there is no drug developed to target CBX2 specifically.

**References:**
- Lee, H.-S., Simon, J. A., & Lis, J. T. (2021). Structure and function of the Polycomb repressive complex 1 transcriptional regulator. Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Developmental Biology, 10(2), e399. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/wdev.399)
- Huang, N., vom Baur, E., Garnier, J.-M., Lerouge, T., Vonesch, J.-L., Lutz, Y., & Chambon, P. (1997). Two distinct nuclear receptor interaction domains in NSD1, a novel SET protein that exhibits characteristics of both corepressors and coactivators. The EMBO Journal, 16(10), 2543–2555. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/emboj/16.10.2543)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**