---
title: "ECHS1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ECHS1"
tags: ['GeneECHS1', 'MitochondrialDisorder', 'BetaOxidation', 'LeighSyndrome', 'Mutation', 'SomaticSNVs', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene ECHS1

## Information
The gene ECHS1 (enoyl-CoA hydratase, short chain 1) is located on chromosome 10 (10q26.11) and encodes for an enzyme that plays a crucial function in β-oxidation of fatty acids in the mitochondrial matrix.

## Aliases and External IDs
- Aliases: MGC104426, ECH, LCHAD, 2-enoyl-CoA hydratase (short-chain), mitochondrial, dJ804I15.1
- External IDs: HGNC: 17776, NCBI Entrez: 54533, Ensembl: ENSG00000107654, OMIM: 602292, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O75874

## Mutation and SNV Information
- AA Mutation list: Multiple mutations have been associated with ECHS1 deficiency, including missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations.
- Mutation Type: Polymorphism, pathogenic/candidate gene
- dbSNP ID: rs781866079, rs759031763, rs768963472, rs376148692
- Somatic SNVs/InDels have not been reported to date.

## Related Disease
ECHS1 deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder that affects the function of mitochondrial β-oxidation of fatty acids, which can lead to a range of symptoms including reduced muscle tone, developmental delays, seizures, migraines and vision and hearing loss. This deficiency can also cause Leigh syndrome, a severe neurological disorder that typically begins in infancy or early childhood and can be fatal.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for ECHS1 deficiency. Treatment primarily focuses on managing symptoms with supportive care, such as physical therapy and medication. The prognosis for individuals with ECHS1 deficiency varies depending on the severity of their symptoms, but it is generally poor.

## Drug Response
There is limited information on drug response for ECHS1 deficiency.

## Related Papers
- WES, RNA-Seq and functional analyses of two ECHS1 mutations causing mitochondrial disease with neurological symptoms. doi:10.1177/2397012218760719
- A molecular approach to identify novel mitochondrial carrier family gene mutations in Lebanese patients with mitochondrial disorders. doi:10.1186/s12881-019-0948-1
- Succinate supplementation improves metabolic and physiologic responses to exercise in mitochondrial myopathy patients. doi:10.1172/jci.insight.121246

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**