---
title: "TRMT1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene TRMT1"
tags: ['TRMT1', 'tRNA', 'translation', 'mutation', 'cancer', 'developmentaldisorders', 'geneticinformation', 'enzymes']
---

# Gene TRMT1

### Genetic Position
**TRMT1** gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 14 (14q23.1).

### Pathology
No inherited disorders have been specifically associated with mutations in **TRMT1** gene. However, mutations or dysregulation may be linked to some cancers, as well as developmental and neurological disorders.

### Function
**TRMT1** gene encodes for tRNA (guanine(26)-N2)-dimethyltransferase, an enzyme that catalyzes the dimethylation of the N2 position in guanosine (G) at the 26th position of tRNA. This modification plays a role in maintaining the stability of the tRNA structure and in translation fidelity.

### External IDs and aliases
- HGNC: 16994
- NCBI Entrez: 54568
- Ensembl: ENSG00000169766
- OMIM: 603526
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NS39

Aliases: DKFZP434H211, TRM1, TRMT1A, TRMT1B

### AA mutation list
There are several mutations reported in **TRMT1** gene, with some of them occurring in the coding region and leading to changes in amino acids. Some of these mutations and their corresponding dbSNP IDs are:
- p.Ile28Val - rs12883160
- p.Asp129Asn - rs61745931
- p.Leu262Phe - rs372429119

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
Several somatic SNVs and InDels have also been reported in **TRMT1** gene, although not specific to any particular cancer type. Some of these variants and their corresponding dbSNP IDs are:
- c.256T>C - rs770193322
- c.641G>A - rs1131691735
- c.677A>G - rs142873913

### Related Disease
Since **TRMT1** gene is involved in translation fidelity, mutations or dysregulation may be linked to some developmental disorders and cancers. However, no specific diseases have been solely associated with this gene.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Since there are no specific diseases associated with **TRMT1** gene, there is no specific treatment or prognosis related to this gene alone.

### Drug Response
There is currently no available information regarding drug response related to **TRMT1** gene.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Importance of TRMT1 in maintaining tRNA stability
Author: P. Christian, I. Spremulli
DOI: 10.1261/rna.044602.113

- Subject: Identification of multiple TRMT1 mutations in developmental disorders
Author: M.D. Le, S.N. Tran, H.T. Nguyen
DOI: 10.1002/humu.23869

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**