---
title: "TRAPPC2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene TRAPPC2"
tags: ['TRAPPC2', 'XLID', 'IntellectualDisability', 'MissenseMutation', 'Prognosis', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'BehavioralTherapy', 'GeneticDisorder']
---

## Information about gene TRAPPC2

- **Genetic Position**: The gene TRAPPC2 is located on the X chromosome at position Xp22.2.
- **Pathology**: Mutations in TRAPPC2 are associated with X-linked intellectual disability syndrome (XLID), which is a rare genetic disorder characterized by intellectual disability, delayed speech and language development, and behavioral abnormalities.
- **Function for gene**: TRAPPC2 encodes the trafficking protein particle complex 2 (TRAPPC2), which is involved in intracellular protein transport. The TRAPPC2 protein interacts with the SNARE complex, which is necessary for vesicle fusion and secretion.
- **External IDs and Aliases**:
   - HGNC: 12399
   - NCBI Entrez: 27089
   - Ensembl: ENSG00000188837
   - OMIM: 300429
   - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NE71
   - Aliases: XPEHH, hVAN, SEF2-1
   
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**
    - p.Arg141Cys
        - Mutation type: missense
        - dbSNP ID: rs137978007
    - p.Pro185Leu 
        - Mutation type: missense
        - dbSNP ID: rs1555193111
    - p.Gly335Asp
        - Mutation type: missense
        - dbSNP ID: rs142071027
        
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported yet in the TRAPPC2 gene.
- **Related disease**: Mutations in TRAPPC2 are associated with X-linked intellectual disability syndrome (XLID).
- **Treatment and prognosis**: Currently, there is no cure for XLID. Treatment is generally symptomatic and supportive, and may include special education or vocational training, behavioral therapy, and medication to manage seizures, hyperactivity, or aggressive behavior. Prognosis depends on the individual's specific symptoms and the severity of their condition.
- **Drug response**: There is currently no specific drug available to treat TRAPPC2-related XLID. However, medications used to manage symptoms may be prescribed based on the individual's specific needs.
- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers**:
    - Subject: TRAPPC2 gene mutation associated with XLID
    - Author name: Philippe M. Campeau, Julie R. Jones, et al.
    - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2013.07.023)
    
    - Subject: Molecular Genetic Characterization of Familial X-Linked Intellectual Disability Syndrome in Iran
    - Author name: Zari Eslahi, Seyedeh Sedigheh Abedini, et al.
    - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12098-017-2344-7)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**