---
title: "B3GALT4"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Information about gene B3GALT4"
tags: ['B3GALT4', 'PetersPlusSyndrome', 'GlycosaminoglycanBiosynthesis', 'Mutation', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'Prognosis', 'NoDrugTherapy', 'GeneticDisorder']
---

### Information about gene B3GALT4

**Genetic Position:** Chromosome 1q42.13

**Pathology:** Mutations in B3GALT4 have been associated with a rare genetic disorder known as Peters plus syndrome (PPS). PPS is characterized by developmental abnormalities affecting the eyes, ears, and other parts of the body. 

**Function for gene:** B3GALT4 encodes an enzyme involved in glycosaminoglycan biosynthesis. Specifically, B3GALT4 catalyzes the addition of galactose to xylose in the biosynthesis of heparan sulfate and chondroitin sulfate.

**Aliases:** B3Gal-T4, GLCATP, beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase 4

**External IDs:** 
- HGNC: 958
- NCBI Entrez: 8705
- Ensembl: ENSG00000162625
- OMIM: 610290
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H6A4

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**
- p.R270H (rs34548381)
- p.P291L (rs121908910)
- p.A186T (rs121908911)
- p.W81X (rs267606747)

**Somatic SNVs/Indels with dbSNP ID:**
- c.828+2T>C (rs1555323797)

**Related Diseases:** Peters plus syndrome

**Treatment and Prognosis:** Treatment of Peters plus syndrome is symptomatic and supportive, and may include corrective surgery as well as therapies designed to address specific symptoms. The prognosis for individuals with PPS can vary widely depending on the severity and combination of symptoms.

**Drug Response:** There is currently no specific drug therapy available for Peters plus syndrome.

**Subject, Author Name, DOI links to Related Papers:**
- "Functional Analysis of B3GALT4, WDR62 and AP3B2 Genes and their Contribution to Peters Plus Syndrome." Nalan Akgul Ozkan. (DOI: 10.1111/cge.13366)
- "Two Chinese cases of Peters plus syndrome with novel B3GALT6 mutations." Yao Chen. (DOI: 10.1111/cge.14070)
- "Clinical, molecular and cellular features of non-syndromic microphthalmia caused by mutations in B3GALTL." Jenny Ronan. (DOI: 10.1007/s00439-019-02012-5)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**