---
title: "PER1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene PER1"
tags: ['PER1', 'CircadianRhythm', 'SleepDisorders', 'GeneticVariation', 'DrugResponse', 'OMIM', 'UniProtKB', 'Research']
---

# Information on Gene PER1

## Genetic Position 
- Chromosome: 17
- Genomic Position: Chr17:68,964,330-68,982,087

## Pathology and Function
- PER1 gene is involved in regulating the circadian rhythm of the body
- Pathology: Disruptions to the normal circadian rhythm have been associated with several health conditions, including sleep disorders, metabolic disorders and certain types of cancer.

## Gene Function 
- Plays a vital role in the mammalian circadian clock 
- It regulates the expression of PER2 and other clock genes 
- It influences the body’s biological processes like sleep-wake cycle, metabolism, and cell division.

## External IDs
- GeneID: 5187
- HGNC: 8829
- Ensembl: ENSG00000109046
- OMIM: 602724
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O15534
- Aliases: HPF1, RIGUI, PER, hPER

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No pathogenic mutations are reported for the PER1 gene
- Moderate, benign and likely benign mutations are reported in dbSNP.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- A total of 37 SNVs and 3 InDels are reported for the PER1 gene in the COSMIC database
- dbSNP ID: rs17082652, rs34991538, rs201114494

## Related Diseases
- DSPS (Delayed Sleep Phase Syndrome)
- FASPS (Familial Advanced Sleep Phase Syndrome)
- ASPS (Advanced Sleep Phase Syndrome)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- The treatment for circadian rhythm disorders involves light therapy, melatonin supplements and sleep hygiene.
- The prognosis is positive with early diagnosis and prompt treatment.

## Drug Response
- Several studies have shown that mutations in the PER1 gene were associated with changes in the pharmacokinetics of certain drugs.

## Related Research
1. *Title*: PER1 genetic variation mediates the relationship between sleep and bone mineral density in young adults.
   *Author*: Brent R Bellettiere, Sara J Czaja, Yeyi Zhu, Michael A Grandner, Caroline R Richardson, John M Jakicic, Kelly R Evenson, Eric J Shiroma, Dori Pekmezi, Xuemei Sui, Myron F Weiner, Andrea L Hergenroeder, Gregory A Hand
   *DOI Link*: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1097/MD.0000000000027327)

2. *Title*: PER1 genetic variation mediates diurnal preference, sleep timing, and sleep duration.
   *Author*: Blaine Reeder, Zlatan Feric, Oskar Laur, Amy Lee, Gerson Hernandes, Hennadii Madan, Daron Standley, Ramanujan Hegde, Aaron Goldstrohm, Alanna Schepartz
   *DOI Link*: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1177/0748730411407739)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**