---
title: "KANSL1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene KANSL1"
tags: ['KANSL1', 'DevelopmentalDelays', 'IntellectualDisability', 'ChromatinRemodeling', 'Mutation', 'SupportiveCare', 'SpeechTherapy', 'EducationalInterventions']
---

# Information about Gene KANSL1

## Genetic Position, Pathology and Function

- **Genetic Position**: KANSL1 is located on the long arm of chromosome 17 (17q21.31).
- **Pathology**: Mutations in the KANSL1 gene are associated with developmental delays and intellectual disabilities. These mutations can occur spontaneously, or they can be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern.
- **Function**: The KANSL1 gene encodes a protein called KAT8 regulatory NSL complex subunit 1, which plays a role in regulating gene expression and chromatin remodeling.

## Gene Information

- **External IDs**: HGNC: 26771; NCBI Entrez: 284058; Ensembl: ENSG00000167110; OMIM: 612452; UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8IW45
- **Aliases**: KAT8IP, C17orf49, MYST4, JADE1, NSL1

## Mutations

- **AA Mutation List**: Several mutations have been identified in the KANSL1 gene associated with developmental delays and intellectual disability. These include missense, nonsense, frameshift, and splice site mutations.
- **Mutation Type**: Single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and small insertions/deletions (InDels)
- **dbSNP IDs**: rs1595789495, rs797044455

## Related Diseases

- Mutations in KANSL1 are associated with developmental delays, intellectual disabilities, speech defects and other developmental disorders.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- There is no specific treatment for KANSL1-related disorders. Management typically involves supportive care, speech therapy, and educational interventions.
- Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the developmental delay or intellectual disability.

## Drug Response

- No drugs have been approved for the treatment of KANSL1-related disorders at this time. However, some medications used to treat related conditions may be helpful in managing symptoms.

## Related Papers

- Hu J, et al. (2019). "KANSL1 and KAT8 Function in Condensin-Mediated Chromosome Organization During Oocyte Meiotic Maturation," in Cell Reports, [[Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2018.11.118](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2018.11.118).)
- Camarena V, et al. (2015). "Mutations in EP300 and KANSL1 cause developmental disorders including intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorder, and language development disorders," in Am J Hum Genet, [[Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2015.06.009](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2015.06.009).)
- Vipin A, et al. (2020). "KANSL1-Related Intellectual Disability Syndrome: A Case Report," in Cureus, [[Click](https://doi.org/10.7759/cureus.7417](https://doi.org/10.7759/cureus.7417).)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**