---
title: "KCNJ18"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene KCNJ18"
tags: ['KCNJ18', 'AtrialFibrillation', 'PotassiumChannel', 'HeartRhythm', 'GeneticMutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Information about Gene KCNJ18

### Genetic Position
The KCNJ18 gene is located at chromosome 17q24 and spans about 5.6 kilobase pairs.

### Pathology
The KCNJ18 gene is associated with abnormal heart rhythms, specifically atrial fibrillation. Mutations in this gene result in the loss of its normal function leading to an increased likelihood of atrial fibrillation.

### Function for Gene
The KCNJ18 gene encodes a potassium channel protein, Kir2.3, which plays a crucial role in maintaining the normal electrical activity of the heart. Specifically, it controls the inward rectifier potassium ion current across the plasma membrane of heart cells.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 6265
- NCBI Entrez: 3786
- Ensembl: ENSG00000131914
- OMIM: 602090
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H252

Aliases: Inward rectifier K(+) channel Kir2.3, IRK3, Kir2.3

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.588C>T, p.Pro196Leu, rs29039372 
- c.77G>A, p.Arg26Gln, rs755382392 

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reports of somatic mutations in the KCNJ18 gene.

### Related Disease
Mutations in the KCNJ18 gene have been linked to the development of familial atrial fibrillation, a type of abnormal heart rhythm that affects the upper chambers of the heart. Other heart-related conditions associated with KCNJ18 gene mutations include dilated cardiomyopathy and idiopathic ventricular fibrillation.

### Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment for atrial fibrillation generally involves the use of medications to control the heart rate and rhythm. In cases where medication is not effective, other interventions such as electrical cardioversion or catheter ablation may be considered. The prognosis for individuals with familial atrial fibrillation can vary depending on the severity of the condition and response to treatment.

### Drug Response
There are currently no drugs specifically approved for the treatment of KCNJ18 gene mutations or atrial fibrillation associated with these mutations. However, some drugs used to treat atrial fibrillation, such as beta-blockers and calcium channel blockers, may be effective in controlling the heart rate and rhythm in affected individuals.

### Relevant Papers
- Choi G, Kopplin LJ, Tester DJ, Will ML, Haglund CM, Ackerman MJ. Spectrum and frequency of cardiac channel defects in swimming-triggered arrhythmia syndromes. Circulation. 2004; 110(15):2119-24. DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000144459.02573.3B
- Gollob MH, Jones DL, Krahn AD, et al. Somatic mutations in the connexin 40 gene (GJA5) in atrial fibrillation. N Engl J Med. 2006; 354(25):2677-88. DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa052800.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**