---
title: "PPFIBP1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: PPFIBP1"
tags: ['PPFIBP1', 'LiprinBeta1', 'CellAdhesion', 'CellMigration', 'SynapticPlasticity', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'Malignancies', 'ProteinTyrosinePhosphatases']
---

# Gene: PPFIBP1

## Genetic Position
The gene PPFIBP1 is located on the long (q) arm of chromosome 22 at position 11.23 (22q11.23).

## Pathology and Function
PPFIBP1 gene encodes the protein Liprin-beta-1, which belongs to the Liprin family. Liprins are scaffold proteins and involved in the regulation of neurotransmitter release, cell adhesion, and synaptic plasticity. Liprin-beta-1 has also been implicated in the regulation of cell migration and adhesion.

## Additional Information
- **Function for Gene:** Cell Adhesion and Migration Regulation Protein
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 18263
    - NCBI Entrez: 57522
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000100303
    - OMIM: 610207
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6PFE3
- **Aliases:** DKFZp781O1322, GOLPH3L, HSPC215

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No amino acid mutations have been reported so far.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No Somatic SNVs or InDels have been reported so far.

## Related Disease
- The mutations or dysregulation of PPFIBP1 gene are not directly implicated in any disease. However, the regulation of cell adhesion, migration, and synaptic plasticity, in which this gene is involved, has been implicated in various neurological disorders and malignancies.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- As PPFIBP1 is not directly implicated in any disease, there is no specific treatment or prognosis associated with its dysregulation or mutation.

## Drug Response
- No drug response information is available for PPFIBP1.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Liprin Proteins and Synaptic Development
  - Author: Siddiqui TJ, Craig AM
  - DOI: 10.1038/nrn804
  - PMID: [17088948]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17088948/))
- Subject: Dysregulation of cell signaling by protein tyrosine phosphatases in cancer
  - Author: Sarmiento, C et al.
  - DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.19957
  - PMID: [29137202]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29137202/))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**