---
title: "CACNA1H"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on gene CACNA1H"
tags: ['CACNA1H', 'VoltageDependentCalciumChannel', 'NeuronalDisorders', 'Mutation', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'CalciumChannelBlockers', 'Epilepsy', 'BipolarDisorder']
---

# Information on gene CACNA1H

## Genetic Position

The gene CACNA1H is located on chromosome 16 at the position 16p13.3-p13.1.

## Pathology

CACNA1H encodes the alpha-1H subunit of a voltage-dependent calcium channel. Mutations in this gene are associated with various neuronal disorders such as epilepsy, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder, and autism spectrum disorder.

## Function 

The protein encoded by CACNA1H is one of the several subunits of the voltage-dependent calcium channel. These channels play a crucial role in neurotransmitter release, gene expression, muscle contraction, and cell death. The alpha-1H subunit, in particular, is predominantly expressed in the brain, where it is involved in controlling the firing rate and bursting activity of neurons.

## External IDs and Aliases

- External IDs: HGNC: 1394, NCBI Entrez: 8913, Ensembl: ENSG00000057445, OMIM: 607904, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O95180 

- Aliases: CACH3, CACN4, Cav3.2, T-type calcium channel subunit alpha-1H 

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- Dihydropyridine binding region amino acid substitutions: R999C (rs148732997), R999W (rs370354191), R1085Q (rs76774887)

- Transmembrane 5 region amino acid substitutions: K1326E (rs142601153), I1365V (rs149064180), I1365T (rs149583377), I1365L (rs141083805), V1368I (rs149305592)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for the CACNA1H gene.

## Related Disease

CACNA1H gene mutations have been linked to a variety of neuronal disorders including primary epilepsy syndrome, early-onset encephalopathy, and bipolar disorder. Moreover, some studies suggest that CACNA1H may be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of certain types of cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis

The treatment and prognosis depend on the specific disorder caused by the mutation in the CACNA1H gene.

## Drug Response

There is evidence to suggest that some calcium channel blockers, such as T-type channel blockers, may be useful in treating disorders caused by mutations in the CACNA1H gene. However, the efficacy of these drugs may vary depending on the specific mutation and the type of disorder.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Gain-of-function CACNA1H Mutations in Childhood Epilepsy with Added Movement Disorder
  - Author: Andrade DM, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/ana.24401
  
- Subject: Integrative functional genomics identifies regulatory mechanisms at coronary artery disease loci
  - Author: Gao H, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-10545-w
  
- Subject: A Mutation in the T-Type Calcium Channel Gene CACNA1H Is Associated With Absence Epilepsy
  - Author: Kniffin CL, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1212/wnl.58.9.1433

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**