---
title: "GALNT3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: GALNT3"
tags: ['GALNT3', 'FamilialTumoralCalcinosis', 'Glycosyltransferase', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'ClinicalVariability']
---

# Gene: GALNT3

## Information
- **Pathology:** GALNT3 is associated with a rare genetic disorder called familial tumoral calcinosis (FTC), which is characterized by the progressive deposition of calcium phosphate crystals in the skin and soft tissues.
- **Function:**  GALNT3 encodes a member of the glycosyltransferase family. This enzyme catalyzes the initial reaction in the O-linked glycosylation of mucins.
- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 4164
    - NCBI Entrez: 2589
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000147651
    - OMIM: 601756
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60500
- **Aliases:** GALNAC-T3, UDP-GalNAc:polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 3, GALNT3

## Mutations
- **AA mutation list:** A list of AA mutations can be found in the ClinVar database ([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/).)
- **Mutation type with dbSNP ID:** Single nucleotide variations in GALNT3 are listed in the dbSNP database ([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/snp/)) and include missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations.

## Related Disease
- **Disease:** Familial tumoral calcinosis (FTC)
- **Symptoms:** Progressive deposition of calcium phosphate crystals in the skin and soft tissues leading to painful, disabling, and disfiguring tumors.
- **Inheritance:** Autosomal recessive

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no cure for familial tumoral calcinosis, and treatment options are limited. Surgical removal of the tumors can provide temporary relief, but recurrence is common. Some patients have responded to treatment with acetazolamide, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, although this treatment is considered experimental.

## Drug Response
- There is limited information on drug response in patients with GALNT3 mutations.

## Related Papers and Subject Expert
- **Subject Expert:** Dr. Robert Terkeltaub
- **Author Name:** Ichikawa et al.
- **DOI links to Related Papers:**
     - Ichikawa S, Baujat G, Seyahi A, Garoufali AG, Imel EA, Padgett LR, Austin AM, Sorenson AH, Peister A, Watts NB, Al-Jurayyan NA, Salloum FN, Basran R, Srinivasan S, Itzstein C, Brown MA, Carcione R, Boeving A, Insogna K, Imanishi Y, Simonds WF, Collins MT. Clinical variability of familial tumoral calcinosis caused by novel GALNT3 mutations. Am J Med Genet A. 2010 Jul;152A(7):1793-800. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.33451. PMID: 20602488.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**