---
title: "UBE3B"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: UBE3B"
tags: ['Gene', 'UBE3B', 'Ubiquitination', 'NeurodevelopmentalDisorders', 'KaufmanOculocerebrofacialSyndrome', 'MissenseMutations', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment']
---

# Gene: UBE3B

## Genetic Position
The UBE3B gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 19 at the position 19p13.3.

## Pathology and Function
The UBE3B gene encodes a protein that belongs to the ubiquitin-protein ligase E3 family. This protein is involved in ubiquitination, which is a process that tags proteins for degradation by the proteasome. The UBE3B protein has been shown to be important in cellular processes such as DNA damage response, cell cycle regulation, and apoptosis.

## External IDs and aliases
- HGNC: 28574
- NCBI Entrez: 152006
- Ensembl: ENSG00000164305
- OMIM: 610965
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H5V8

Aliases:
- KIAA2026
- dJ750M23.1

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are several known mutations in the UBE3B gene that have been associated with various diseases. Some of these mutations and their associated diseases include:

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID | Associated Disease |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| p.Arg704* | Missense | rs757285267 | Kaufman oculocerebrofacial syndrome |
| p.Arg827* | Missense | rs201607774 | Kaufman oculocerebrofacial syndrome |
| p.Arg847Ser | Missense | rs767044713 | Kaufman oculocerebrofacial syndrome |
| p.Pro1029Leu | Missense | rs372323261 | Kaufman oculocerebrofacial syndrome |
| p. Pro1167Leu | Missense | rs869320625 | Neurodevelopmental disorder with speech impairment and dysmorphic facies|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels in the UBE3B gene.

## Related diseases
Some of the diseases associated with mutations in the UBE3B gene include:
- Kaufman oculocerebrofacial syndrome
- Neurodevelopmental disorder with speech impairment and dysmorphic facies

## Treatment and prognosis
There is currently no cure for Kaufman oculocerebrofacial syndrome or neurodevelopmental disorder with speech impairment and dysmorphic facies. Treatment is typically focused on managing the symptoms associated with these conditions, such as speech therapy, physical therapy, and medication.

## Drug response
There is currently no information on drug response specific to mutations in the UBE3B gene.

## Related papers
- Subject: "Phenotypic spectrum associated with de novo and inherited deletions and duplications at 19p13.3"
  - Author: Pagnamenta AT, Wing K, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0013132
- Subject: "Mutation spectrum in RAI1-associated neurodevelopmental disorder"
  - Author: Dindot SV, Antolik C, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddu002

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**