---
title: "SCN11A"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: SCN11A "
tags: ['SCN11A', 'Nav1.9', 'PainDisorders', 'GeneticVariations', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'SodiumChannel', 'MutationAnalysis']
---

## Gene: SCN11A 

- **Function for gene:** The SCN11A gene encodes a protein known as Nav1.9, which is a voltage-gated sodium channel. This protein plays a crucial role in the perception of pain and possesses a slow-inactivating current that is capable of producing long-lasting action potentials in nociceptors.

- **External IDs for gene:** 

  - HGNC: 11715 
  - NCBI Entrez: 11278 
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000165879 
  - OMIM: 611775 
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UI33

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

  - c.709G>A (p.Arg237His) rs769239156
  - c.2870G>A (p.Arg957Gln) rs3746870
  - c.2870G>T (p.Arg957Leu) rs3746870
  - c.5759C>T (p.Arg1920Ter) rs757721052
  - c.787T>C (p.Leu263Pro) rs786204590

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

  - c.1399G>A (p.Ala467Thr) rs763379590

- **Related disease:** Mutations in the SCN11A gene have been associated with several pain disorders, including primary erythromelalgia and paroxysmal extreme pain disorder.

- **Treatment and prognosis:** Currently, there is no cure for primary erythromelalgia or paroxysmal extreme pain disorder. Treatment options include pain management and the use of medications such as carbamazepine or mexiletine.

- **Drug response:** Nav1.9 inhibitors are being developed as potential treatments for pain disorders associated with SCN11A mutations.

- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**

  - "Genetic variations in SCN11A are associated with susceptibility to painful diabetic neuropathy in a Chinese population" by Wei Chen, et al. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/srep42360))
  - "Gain-of-function mutations in SCN11A cause familial episodic pain" by Franziska Rudin, et al. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.3599))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**