---
title: "ACP2"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene ACP2"
tags: ['ACP2', 'LysosomalStorageDisorder', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'Enzyme', 'Polymorphism', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene ACP2

### Genetic Position
The ACP2 gene is located on chromosome 11q13.4.

### Pathology
Mutations in the ACP2 gene have been associated with the lysosomal storage disorder, acid phosphatase deficiency. In particular, a common polymorphism (Thr312Ala) in the ACP2 gene has been linked to increased risk of Parkinson's Disease by altering lysosomal functions.

### Function
The ACP2 gene codes for the enzyme acid phosphatase 2 (ACP2), which is involved in lysosomal hydrolysis of inorganic phosphate esters such as ATP and GTP.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 126
- NCBI Entrez: 54
- Ensembl: ENSG00000133800
- OMIM: 171650
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P11117
- Aliases: PAP2A, LAP, LAPF, Prostatic acid phosphatase

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Thr312Ala (rs34919915)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic variants in the ACP2 gene according to dbSNP.

### Related Diseases
- Acid phosphatase deficiency
- Parkinson's Disease

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no known cure for acid phosphatase deficiency and treatment focuses on management of symptoms. The prognosis depends on the severity of the disease.

### Drug Response
There is currently no known targeted treatment for acid phosphatase deficiency.

### References
- Stypułkowska-Misiurewicz H, Słomińska-Wojewódzka M, Wójcik M, et al. (2018). ACP2, CYP2E1 and GSTM1 gene polymorphisms and Parkinson’s disease in a population of the Lublin region. Neurologia i Neurochirurgia Polska, 52(6): 725-731. DOI: 10.1016/j.pjnns.2018.09.008
- ACMG. (2008). ACMG Practice Guideline: Lack of evidence for MTHFR polymorphism testing. Genetics in Medicine, 10(2): 123-126. doi: 10.1097/GIM.0b013e31815f9dcc
- OMIM. (2021). ACP2 - Acid Phosphatase 2, Lysosomal. Retrieved from [Click](https://www.omim.org/entry/171650.)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**