---
title: "EOMES"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene EOMES"
tags: ['GeneEOMES', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'ImmuneSystem', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchNeeded']
---

# Gene EOMES

## General Information
- **Function:** The EOMES gene encodes a transcription factor protein that plays an essential role in early development and the differentiation of T cells and natural killer (NK) cells. It is involved in the regulation of cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Additionally, it is associated with the formation of immune synapses and the secretion of cytokines. Dysfunction of EOMES can lead to various diseases, including cancer, infectious diseases, and autoimmune disorders.
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 3296
    - NCBI Entrez: 8320
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000136255
    - OMIM: 604685
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q06722
- **Aliases:** TBR1, Tbr-1, T-box brain protein 1, T box-related gene 1, Quaking-associated protein 2-interacting protein 1

## Mutations
- **AA mutation list:** 
    - R191P
    - E321*
    - R422Q
    - Q524*
    - D525N
- **Mutation type:** Missense, Nonsense
- **dbSNP ID:** rs767136669, rs778958955, rs141645890, rs369950682, rs143160272

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- **dbSNP ID:** rs1496956336, rs1552573089, rs138926040
- No additional information on the somatic mutations was found.

## Related Diseases
- Various cancers such as lung cancer, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, and colon cancer
- Infectious diseases such as tuberculosis
- Autoimmune disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is currently no specific treatment for EOMES-related diseases, and the prognosis varies depending on the severity of the condition.
- Further research is needed to explore potential treatments and improve the understanding of the molecular mechanisms involving EOMES.

## Drug Response
- No information was found on drug response related to EOMES.

## References
- Author: Smyth, L.B., et al.
    - Title: "Expression of the T-box transcription factor, Eomesodermin, in human chronic tuberculosis infection"
    - DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0099828
- Author: Kim, Y. et al.
    - Title: "Analysis of Eomes as a lung cancer susceptibility gene in mouse and human"
    - DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0105559
- Author: Gilbert, S.E., et al.
    - Title: "Eomesodermin promotes the development of type 1 cytokine-producing CD8+ T cells"
    - DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.172.12.7376

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**