---
title: "CC2D1A"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information Analysis on Gene CC2D1A"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'CC2D1A', 'GeneFunction', 'Mutations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Genetic Information Analysis on Gene CC2D1A

## General Information
- **Gene Name:** CC2D1A (Coiled-Coil and C2 Domain Containing 1A)
- **Aliases:** D14S709E, CDHC2, KIAA0932 
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000152081
- **Gene Location:** Chromosome 19p13.2
- **HGNC ID:** 26782
- **NCBI Entrez Gene ID:** 64750
- **OMIM ID:** 610055
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** Q9P2J9

## Function of CC2D1A Gene
The CC2D1A gene is responsible for encoding the protein coiled-coil and C2 domain-containing protein 1A. This protein is mainly involved in the regulation of gene expression and the differentiation of embryonic stem cells.

## Mutations and Variants
- **AA Mutation List:** Some common AA mutations are:
  - c.8018-2A>G
  - p.Trp131*
  - p.Glu150Aspfs*65
  - p.Arg467Ter
- **Mutation Type:** Missense, nonsense, frameshift, splicing mutations
- **dbSNP ID:** rs794728342, rs121434437, rs864321912, rs1507564368, rs755918494

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
The following somatic SNVs/InDels with their respective dbSNP IDs have been identified in the CC2D1A gene:
- rs755918494
- rs864321912

## Related Diseases
Mutations in the CC2D1A gene have been associated with a rare genetic disorder called the 3MC syndrome. This syndrome is characterized by facial dysmorphism, cleft lip and palate, hearing loss, and genital and skeletal abnormalities.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there are no specific treatments available for individuals with CC2D1A mutations and related disorders. Treatment is usually symptomatic and supportive. The prognosis of individuals with CC2D1A mutations depends on the severity of symptoms and complications associated with the disorder.

## Drug Response
Currently, there are no drugs available for the treatment of CC2D1A mutations and related disorders.

## Related Papers
- **Author Name:** Roifman et al.
  - **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.1054)
- **Author Name:** van der Crabben et al.
  - **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2013.08.009)
- **Author Name:** Twigg et al.
  - **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/hmg/ddt616)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**