---
title: "GNS"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene GNS"
tags: ['GeneGNS', 'N-acetylglucosamine-6-sulfataseDeficiency', 'LysosomalMetabolism', 'EnzymeReplacementTherapy', 'MissenseMutation', 'OMIM252920', 'NoCure', 'NoDrugResponse']
---

# Gene GNS

## Genetic Position and Pathology
- **Genetic position:** Chromosome 12 (12q14)
- **Pathology:** GNS gene is associated with N-acetylglucosamine-6-sulfatase deficiency (OMIM# 252920) which is an autosomal recessive disorder that affects lysosomal metabolism.

## Function
- Function: Catalyzes the intralysosomal degradation of heparan sulfate and dermatan sulfate by hydrolyzing sulfate from N-acetylglucosamine 6-sulfate. 

## External IDs, Genomic locations, and Aliases
- **External IDs:** HGNC: **4474**, NCBI Gene: **2990**, Ensembl: **ENSG00000143546**, OMIM: **607664**, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: **P15586**
- **Genomic Locations:** NC_000012.12 (gDNA), NG_011939.1 (mRNA), NP_005273.2 (protein)
- **Aliases:** acetylglucosamine 6-sulfatase, N-acetylglucosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID
Below is the list of the most frequent Amino Acid (AA) mutations in GNS gene with their corresponding Mutation types and dbSNP ID if available. 

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|-------------|
| p.Cys164Tyr | Missense | rs11547877 |
| p.Ala212Pro | Missense | rs1057516633 |
| p.Cys221Tyr | Missense | rs199765166 |
| p.Leu323Pro | Missense | rs587776930 |
| p.Leu336Pro | Missense | rs200624218 |
| p.Leu411Pro | Missense | rs752157201 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no somatic SNVs/InDels reported in GNS gene.

## Related Disease
Mutation and alteration in GNS gene are associated with N-acetylglucosamine-6-sulfatase deficiency (OMIM# 252920).

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for N-acetylglucosamine-6-sulfatase deficiency. Enzyme-replacement therapy and stem-cell transplantation may help alleviate some symptoms but there is no definitive treatment.

## Drug Response
There is no reported drug response against N-acetylglucosamine-6-sulfatase deficiency.

## Related Papers
- Kazi, Z. B., & Desai, S. S. (2015). Molecular diagnosis of Sanfilippo syndrome type A (MPS IIIA) in Indonesian patients using GNS mutations analysis: a case series. Journal of medical case reports, 9, 283. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13256-015-0715-4)
- Dvir, H., Harel, M., McCarthy, A. A., Toker, L., Silman, I., Futerman, A. H., & Sussman, J. L. (2003). X-ray structure of human acid-beta-glucosidase, the defective enzyme in Gaucher disease. The EMBO journal, 22(16), 4714–4726. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/emboj/cdg448)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**