---
title: "LGALS13"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: LGALS13 "
tags: ['LGALS13', 'LectinProtein', 'CarbohydrateBinding', 'CellAdhesion', 'Apoptosis', 'GeneticInformation', 'GeneFunction', 'SNPs']
---

## Gene: LGALS13 
### Genetic Position
- The LGALS13 gene is located on chromosome 19q13.2. It spans a genomic region of approximately 2,700 base pairs.

### Pathology
- The LGALS13 gene has not been associated directly with any pathology or disease.

### Function 
- The LGALS13 gene encodes for a lectin protein known as Galectin-13. This protein specifically binds to carbohydrates and has been implicated in cell adhesion, proliferation, and apoptosis.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 17924
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 114808
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000173110
- OMIM ID: 610586
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q6P9H1
- Aliases: GAL13, HSPC159, MGC163239

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- There are several SNPs listed in the dbSNP database for the LGALS13 gene, but no specific AA mutations have been associated with any pathology or disease.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are currently no listed somatic SNVs or InDels in the dbSNP database associated with the LGALS13 gene.

### Related Disease
- The LGALS13 gene has not been implicated in any specific disease or pathology.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no current treatment or prognosis associated with the LGALS13 gene due to its lack of direct involvement in any pathology or disease.

### Drug Response
- There is no known drug response associated with the LGALS13 gene.

### Related Papers
- T. Yamauchi, et al. "Identification of 26 novel alternatively spliced transcript variants in 18 mouse genes expressed in gametes." BMC Genomics. 2006.
- J. Moutsatsos, et al. "Galectin-13, a novel endogenous lectin, modulates total protein and plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 concentrations in experimental cell injury." Am J Pathol. 1997.  

***Written by [YOUR NAME], [DATE]. DOI LINKS***

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**