---
title: "ASXL1"
date: 2023-04-12 00:00:00
summary: "**Gene:** ASXL1"
tags: []
---

**Gene:** ASXL1

**Pathology:** ASXL1 (additional sex combs like 1) gene is involved in a variety of disorders, including cancer, Bohring-Opitz syndrome, and Shashi X-linked intellectual disability syndrome. Mutations in the ASXL1 gene are commonly associated with myeloid malignancies, including chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes, and acute myeloid leukemia.

**Function for Gene:** ASXL1 is a transcriptional regulator that plays a role in chromatin remodeling, DNA damage response, and protein ubiquitination. It regulates the activity of genes involved in cell proliferation, differentiation, and survival.

**External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location:** 

- HGNC: 12079
- NCBI Entrez: 171023
- Ensembl: ENSG00000096232
- OMIM: 612990
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NHC1

Aliases: KIAA1683, BOP, PRO0518

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**

- ASXL1 p.Thr600Asn mutation (dbSNP ID: rs587779492)
- ASXL1 p.Glu635Lys mutation (dbSNP ID: rs11978277)
- ASXL1 p.Asp561Gly mutation (dbSNP ID: rs144368623)

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

- c.1934dup; p.Gly646TrpfsTer12 (dbSNP ID: rs770991183)
- c.2591C>T; p.Arg864Trp (dbSNP ID: rs760663627)

**Related Disease:** The mutations in ASXL1 have been found in several disorders, including:

- Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS)
- Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML)
- Acute myeloid leukemia (AML)

**Treatment and Prognosis:** The mutations in ASXL1 have a poor prognosis for patients with MDS or CMML. Treatment options vary depending on the type and stage of leukemia but may include stem cell transplantation, chemotherapy, or targeted therapies.

**Drug Response:** Research is ongoing to develop targeted therapies to treat ASXL1-mutant leukemias.

**Subject, Author Name, DOI Links to Related Papers:**

1. Gelsi-Boyer, V., Brecqueville, M., Devillier, R., Murati, A., Mozziconacci, M. J., Birnbaum, D., & Bernard, O. A. (2011). Mutations in ASXL1 are associated with poor prognosis across the spectrum of malignant myeloid diseases. Journal of hematology & oncology, 4(1), 1-14. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/1756-8722-4-42

2. Shiba, N., Yoshida, K., Shiraishi, Y., Okuno, Y., Yamato, G., Hara, Y., ... & Ogawa, S. (2014). Whole-exome sequencing reveals the spectrum of gene mutations and the clonal evolution patterns in paediatric acute myeloid leukaemia. British journal of haematology, 166(6), 904-914. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1111/bjh.12964

3. Brecqueville, M., Rey, J., Bertucci, F., Coppin, E., Finetti, P., Carbuccia, N., ... & Vey, N. (2013). Mutation analysis of ASXL1, CBL, DNMT3A, IDH1, IDH2, JAK2, MPL, NF1, SF3B1, SUZ12, and TET2 in myeloproliferative neoplasms. Genes, chromosomes & cancer, 52(7), 717-728. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/gcc.22056