---
title: "PDCD1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene PDCD1"
tags: ['PDCD1', 'ImmuneCheckpoint', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'Cancer', 'ImmuneCheckpointInhibitors', 'DrugResponse', 'SNP', 'ClinicalTrials']
---

# Gene PDCD1

## Information

- **Genetic Position**: Chromosome 2 (2q37)
- **Pathology**: PDCD1 (Programmed cell death protein 1) is involved in the regulation of the immune system. Pathology of PDCD1 has been associated with autoimmune diseases, infectious diseases, and cancer. 
- **Function**: PDCD1 is an immune checkpoint protein that plays a key role in regulating T-cell activation and maintaining immune system homeostasis. It does this by binding to the ligand PD-L1 and inhibiting T-cell activation, preventing an inappropriate immune response.
- **External IDs**: 
    - HGNC: 8795
    - NCBI Entrez: 5133
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000188389
    - OMIM: 600244
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q15116
- **Aliases**: PD-1, CD279, SLEB2

## Mutations

- **AA Mutation List**:
    - p.Gly238Asp (rs11568821)
    - p.Prod374Ser (rs41386349)
    - p.Gln62His (rs2227981)
- **Mutation Type**: Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNP)
- **dbSNP ID**: rs11568821, rs41386349, rs2227981

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

- No somatic SNVs or InDels have been identified for PDCD1.

## Related Diseases

- Autoimmune diseases: Rheumatoid arthritis, Lupus, Type 1 Diabetes, Multiple Sclerosis
- Infectious diseases: HIV, Hepatitis B and C
- Cancer: Melanoma, Lung cancer, Renal cell carcinoma, Gastric cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis

- Immune checkpoint inhibitors targeting PDCD1 have been used to treat various cancers, such as melanoma and lung cancer. These treatments have shown promising results in clinical trials.
- In autoimmune diseases, PDCD1-targeted therapies are still in the preclinical phase.
- Prognosis and treatment depend on the specific disease and individual factors.

## Drug Response

- Pembrolizumab and nivolumab are immune checkpoint inhibitor drugs that target PDCD1 and are used in cancer treatment.
- Individual response to these drugs varies and depends on multiple factors, including the specific type of cancer and genetic factors.

## References

- Shin, D. S., & Ribas, A. (2015). The evolution of checkpoint blockade as a cancer therapy: what's here, what's next?. Current opinion in immunology, 33, 23-35. DOI: [10.1016/j.coi.2015.01.006]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coi.2015.01.006))
- Chatterjee, S., & Behnam Azad, B. (2018). Navigating the future of PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibition in metastatic breast cancer. Current treatment options in oncology, 19(10), 1-16. DOI: [10.1007/s11864-018-0574-z]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11864-018-0574-z))
- Walker, L. S. K., & Sansom, D. M. (2015). The emerging role of CTLA4 as a therapeutic target in immune checkpoint blockade therapy. Immunology and cell biology, 93(5), 431-440. DOI: [10.1038/icb.2015.19]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/icb.2015.19))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**