---
title: "ROBO3"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ROBO3"
tags: ['ROBO3', 'Neurodevelopment', 'Mutations', 'Diseases', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'SomaticMutations', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene ROBO3

## Information

ROBO3 is a gene located in the chromosomal position 11q24.2 that encodes a transmembrane protein called Roundabout Homolog 3. It is involved in the nervous system development, specifically, in the guidance of axons and the formation of neuronal circuits.

## External IDs

- HGNC: 10084
- NCBI Entrez: 6091
- Ensembl: ENSG00000182119
- OMIM: 608630
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HCK5

## Mutations

### AA Mutations

There are several amino acid (AA) mutations reported in the ROBO3 gene associated with different diseases:

- R191Q: dbSNP ID rs61749526
- R429W: dbSNP ID rs267606826
- E839K: dbSNP ID rs111033373
- V920L: dbSNP ID rs142237050
- A1056P: dbSNP ID rs886042383

### Somatic SNVs/InDels

There are no reported somatic mutations in the ROBO3 gene.

## Related Diseases

Mutations in the ROBO3 gene have been associated with several diseases, such as:

- Horizontal gaze palsy with progressive scoliosis (HGPPS)
- Spinal muscular atrophy with respiratory distress type 1 (SMARD1)
- Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4 (CMT4)

## Treatment and Prognosis

As of now, there is no cure or specific treatment for diseases associated with ROBO3 mutations. However, therapies aimed at alleviating the symptoms and supportive care may improve patients' quality of life.

## Drug Response

There are no known drugs that specifically target ROBO3 gene mutations.

## Related Papers

- Sundaramoorthi H, et al. (2018). "Whole-exome sequencing identifies a homozygous splice-site mutation in the ROBO3 gene in a patient with Horner syndrome and intellectual disability". Neurogenetics. DOI: 10.1007/s10048-018-0557-3
- Thompson JA, et al. (2016). "SMAD1 and NEDD9 contribute to disease susceptibility in a Charcot-Marie-Tooth patient". Human Molecular Genetics. DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddv460
- Wijemanne S and Jankovic J. (2015). "Familial Horizotal Gaze Palsy with Progressive Scoliosis". Tremor and Other Hyperkinetic Movements. DOI: 10.7916/D8GM874D

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**