---
title: "CCDC8"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene CCDC8"
tags: ['CCDC8', 'TumorSuppressor', 'CellCycleRegulation', 'PrimaryCiliaryDyskinesia', 'MissenseMutation', 'SomaticVariants', 'RespiratoryInfections', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene CCDC8

- **Function:** The coiled-coil domain-containing protein 8 (CCDC8) is involved in the regulation of the cell cycle and functions as a tumor suppressor. It has been shown to interact with other proteins involved in cell growth and division, such as cyclin-dependent kinase 4 and retinoblastoma protein.

- **External IDs:**
    - Gene ID: 84173
    - Genomic location: 19q13.11
    - Aliases: Coiled-coil domain-containing protein 8, TTC1
    
- **External sites:**
    - HGNC: 25526
    - NCBI Entrez: 84173
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000105671
    - OMIM: 610152
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q2TBX2
    
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

| AA change | Mutation type | dbSNP ID |
| ---------|--------------| ---------|
| L23P     | Missense      | rs61756751|
| L92F     | Missense      | rs200468418|
| P200L    | Missense      | rs114018123|
| K238E    | Missense      | rs61754457|
| R247Q    | Missense      | rs61756752|
| S252F    | Missense      | rs115465639|
| G271E    | Missense      | rs575669222|
| G271V    | Missense      | rs148947814|
| S278P    | Missense      | rs140767666|
| R279G    | Missense      | rs200684306|

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

| Variant | dbSNP ID |
| ------- | -------- |
| c.648C>T | rs797044772|
| c.769G>A | rs797044773|
| c.785C>G | rs797044774|
| c.959G>A | rs797044775|
| c.1029G>T| rs797044776|

- **Related disease:** CCDC8 mutations have been associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia, a rare genetic disorder characterized by chronic respiratory infections due to impaired motility of cilia.

- **Treatment and prognosis:** Currently, there is no cure for primary ciliary dyskinesia. Treatment aims to manage symptoms and prevent complications, such as respiratory infections. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disease and the frequency and severity of infections.

- **Drug response:** There is currently no known drug response associated with mutations in CCDC8.

- **Related papers:**
    -  Merve Kaymakcalan, Alex G. Lee, Jarek Meller, Predicted Aid to Molecular Diagnosis of Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia through Gene Analysis, The Ciliopathies:  Cellular and Molecular Mechanisms of Developmental Anomalies. Elsevier Inc., pp.285-305, 2019, 9780128008926. hal-01930129. [DOI]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-800892-6.00017-6))
    - Quyen N. Do, Ashleigh E. Schaffer, Shubhika Srivastava, Adam J. Shapiro, David N. Kennedy, Blakesley Burkhart, Geraldine Baker, Stephanie M. Ware, Helena P. Paz, Divya Duggirala, Zhaohui Yang, Michael R Knowles, Elizabeth A. Alpern, Margaret W. Leigh, Gregory M. Enns, Carlos L. Milla, Yvonne CW Yau, Richard J. H. Smith, Marjorie P. Beucher, John A. Ostrowski, Susan K. Dutcher, Michael R. Loewen, Leslie G. Biesecker, João A. Paulo, David A. Sweetser, CCDC78, a protein associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia, interacts with the hydrophilic matrix protein Muc5b and has a role in airway defense mechanisms, PLoS Genet, 2020, 16 (8): e1009036. [DOI]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pgen.1009036))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**