---
title: "CAMKMT"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene CAMKMT"
tags: ['CAMKMT', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticPosition', 'RelatedDiseases', 'DrugResponse', 'Mutation', 'SomaticSNVs', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about gene CAMKMT

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Genetic Position:** CAMKMT (calmodulin-lysine N-methyltransferase) gene is located on chromosome 2q34.
- **Pathology:** There is limited information available on genetic pathology associated with the CAMKMT gene.
- **Function:** The CAMKMT gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the methylation of lysine residues on calmodulin, which regulates calcium signaling in cells.

## Gene Information
- **Function for gene:** Methylation of lysine residues on calmodulin
- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
     - HGNC: CAMKMT
     - NCBI Entrez: 139334
     - Ensembl: ENSG00000169702
     - OMIM: 610879
     - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6P2J9
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** There are currently no known AA mutations in the CAMKMT gene.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** There are currently no known somatic SNVs/InDels in the CAMKMT gene.
- **Related Diseases:** Currently there is no known disease associated with CAMKMT gene.
- **Treatment and Prognosis:** Currently, there is no treatment or prognosis associated with CAMKMT gene.
- **Drug Response:** Currently, there is no known drug response associated with CAMKMT gene.

## Related Papers
1. Subject: A novel mutation in CAMKMT causing ataxia, cognitive decline, and cerebellar atrophy.
   - Author: Doosti M et al.
   - DOI: 10.1002/mgg3.682
   
2. Subject: A genome-wide association study identifies only two ancestry specific variants associated with spontaneous preterm birth.
   - Author: Manuck TA et al.
   - DOI: 10.1186/s12916-019-1296-6

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**