---
title: "GDF3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene information for GDF3"
tags: ['GDF3', 'TGFbeta', 'EmbryoDevelopment', 'GeneticMutation', 'SomaticVariants', 'NoRelatedDisease', 'NoTreatment', 'NoDrugResponse']
---

# Gene information for GDF3

## Basic Information
Growth Differentiation Factor 3 (GDF3) is a protein-coding gene located on chromosome 12. It encodes a secreted protein belonging to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily, which plays a vital role in cellular growth and differentiation. 

## Function for gene
The function of GDF3 is still being studied to a greater extent. However, its association with embryo development among mammals has been noted. Preliminary studies suggest the protein aids in the early embryonic patterning process by influencing the position of key transcription factors. 

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- HGNC: 4198
- NCBI Entrez: 9573
- Ensembl: ENSG00000177383
- OMIM: 605120
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P27539
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 12 (12p13.31)

### Aliases
- bone morphogenetic protein 15B 
- GDF-3 
- GDF-5 
- GDF5B

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
Currently, there are no known mutations that affect the amino acid sequence of GDF3.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are somatic SNVs and Indels present in the GDF3 gene. These include:
- rs13003614
- rs111359210

## Related disease
There are no known medical conditions associated with GDF3.

## Treatment and prognosis
Since GDF3 has no known connection with any medical condition, there is no treatment or prognosis related to it.

## Drug response
No studies have been done on the drug response associated with GDF3.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Growth differentiation factor 3
- Author: Zhang Y, Feng XH, Derynck R
- DOI: 10.1016/bs.ircmb.2014.11.010

- Subject: GDF3 expression influences pluripotency of human embryonic stem cells
- Author: Li D, Wang L, Hou J, Shen Q, Chen Q, Wang X, Jing N, Li J
- DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0079365

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**