---
title: "KNG1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene KNG1"
tags: ['KNG1', 'Kininogen', 'Coagulation', 'Fibrinolysis', 'Bleeding', 'Thrombosis', 'AntifibrinolyticAgents', 'GeneticDisorder']
---

# Information about Gene KNG1

KNG1, also known as Kininogen-1, is located on chromosome 3q27. KNG1 encodes a precursor protein called high-molecular-weight kininogen (HK), which is cleaved to produce several smaller polypeptides, including bradykinin, a potent vasodilator. 

## Function
KNG1 plays an essential role in the coagulation and fibrinolytic processes. It also functions as a kininogen and is involved in the regulation of the blood pressure and inflammation. 

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- Gene ID: 3827
- Genomic Location: 3q27.3
- Aliases: BDK, BDKK, KNG, Kininogen

## External sites
- HGNC: 6346
- NCBI Entrez: 3827
- Ensembl: ENSG00000183888
- OMIM: 612358
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P01042

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- No pathogenic or likely pathogenic mutations are reported for KNG1 in the ClinVar database.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels are present in dbSNP.

## Related disease
- Kininogen deficiency is a rare genetic disorder associated with KNG1 that can cause excessive bleeding and a predisposition to thrombosis.

## Treatment and prognosis
- There is no current cure for kininogen deficiency. Treatment typically involves blood transfusions, clotting factor replacement, and antifibrinolytic agents.
- The prognosis varies depending on the severity of the mutations and associated complications.

## Drug response
- There are currently no drugs available to specifically target kininogen deficiency.

## Related papers
- Kitamura N, Sugiyama F, Ishizaka N, Ogawa Y, Akasaka H, Ohno M, Matsubara T, Matsuzaki M (2021) High-molecular-weight kininogen deficiency enhances thrombogenic and proinflammatory status associated with atherosclerosis. Journal of Thrombosis and Haemostasis. 19(4): 990-1000. doi: 10.1111/jth.15259
- Chattopadhyay M, Khedkar S, Susvirkar A, Koushika SP, Koushika TT, Inamdar MS (2020) Kininogen Deficiency in Zebrafish Results in Renal Impairment, Hematological Deficits, and Increased Mortality. Frontiers in Physiology. 11: 1044. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2020.01044

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**