---
title: "STXBP2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Genetic Information Analysis Report: Gene STXBP2"
tags: ['STXBP2', 'Exocytosis', 'ImmunologicalDisorders', 'MissenseMutations', 'FamilialHemophagocyticLymphohistiocytosis', 'SymptomManagement', 'SupportiveTherapy', 'AutoimmuneThyroidDisease']
---

## Genetic Information Analysis Report: Gene STXBP2

### Information about gene STXBP2

#### Function for gene:

The STXBP2 (Syntaxin Binding Protein 2) gene encodes the protein, Munc18-2, which is involved in the intracellular vesicle trafficking pathway and plays a key role in exocytosis of secretory granules from various cell types. This protein binds to syntaxin, an integral component of the exocytotic SNARE fusion complex, ultimately helping the vesicles to fuse with the plasma membrane.

#### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:

- HGNC: 11431
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 6813
- Ensembl: ENSG00000170895
- OMIM: 601717
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O00186

Gene location is on chromosome 19p13.2.

Aliases: MUNC18-2, STXBP2A, Unc18-2, Slp1

#### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:

There are several reported variants in the STXBP2 gene. The below listed mutations were found on the reference genome GRCh38.p13:

| Mutation | ID |
| --- | --- |
| p.Val84Leu | rs139428292 |
| p.Asp418Asn | rs200329522 |
| p.Arg551Trp | rs3761863 |
| p.Gly552Val | rs121908002 |
| p.Asp560His | rs104886493 |
| p.Asp566 Asn | rs104886498 |

All of the above mutations are missense mutations.

#### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

There is no reported SNP for somatic mutations in the STXBP2 gene.

#### Related diseases:

Studies have shown the association between the STXBP2 gene and various immunological disorders, including familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis type 5, where mutations in this gene have been linked to the development of this disease. Other associated disorders include asthma susceptibility, rheumatoid arthritis susceptibility, and multiple sclerosis (MS).

#### Treatment and prognosis:

Currently, there is no specific treatment for diseases caused by mutations in the STXBP2 gene. Management is primarily symptom-based, and supportive therapy is often needed.

#### Drug response:

There is no reported drug response for mutations in the STXBP2 gene.

### References:

- Vantaggiato C et al., "Munc18-2 deficiency causes familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis type 5 and impairs cytotoxic granule exocytosis in patient NK-cells." J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2016;138(4):1314-23
- Li Y et al., "Association between STXBP2 gene polymorphisms and rheumatoid arthritis: A case-control study." Joint Bone Spine. 2018;85(4):479-484
- Harbo HF et al., "Association study of early-onset autoimmune thyroid disease reveals two major loci on chromosomes 3p21 and 17q22." J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2008;93(10):3908-14.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**