---
title: "NDUFAF5"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene NDUFAF5"
tags: ['NDUFAF5', 'MitochondrialComplexIDeficiency', 'ElectronTransportChain', 'B17', 'MetabolicDisorder', 'GeneticMutation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis']
---

## Information about Gene NDUFAF5

**Genetic Position:** Gene NDUFAF5 is located on the long arm of chromosome 8 (8q24.3).

**Pathology:** Mutations in NDUFAF5 gene are associated with the development of mitochondrial complex I deficiency, which is a rare metabolic disorder. This gene plays a role in the assembly and stability of mitochondrial complex I.

**Function:** The NDUFAF5 gene encodes a protein known as B17. B17 is a subunit of mitochondrial complex I, which is the first enzyme complex in the electron transport chain. This complex is responsible for the production of ATP, the main source of energy for cells.

**External IDs and Aliases:**

- HGNC: HGNC:18107
- NCBI Entrez: 51720
- Ensembl: ENSG00000126704
- OMIM: 606934
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H3Q8

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**

There are no AA mutation recorded in the dbSNP database for NDUFAF5 gene.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

There are no somatic SNVs/InDels recorded in the dbSNP database for NDUFAF5 gene.

**Related Disease:** Mitochondrial complex I deficiency is the key disease associated with NDUFAF5 gene.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** Treatment of mitochondrial complex I deficiency involves the use of vitamins, antioxidants, and possible stem cell transplantation. The prognosis for individuals with this disease is poor, and there is currently no cure.

**Drug Response:** There are no drugs specifically approved for the treatment of mitochondrial complex I deficiency, but several drugs are in development.

**Related Papers:**

-  **Title:** NDUFAF5 Hydroxylates NDUFS7 at an Early Stage in the Assembly of Human Complex I
   - **Author:** Stroud DA, Surgenor EE, Formosa LE, et al.
   - **doi:** 10.1016/j.cell.2016.10.051
   - **PMID:** 27863249
   
- **Title:** A homozygous NDUFAF5 mutation causes complex I deficiency in a patient with development delay and epileptic encephalopathy 
   - **Author:** Yao X, et al.
   - **doi:** 10.1038/s41598-019-44152-5
   - **PMID:** 31227704

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**