---
title: "ALG3"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for ALG3 "
tags: ['ALG3', 'CongenitalDisordersOfGlycosylation', 'CDGId', 'ProteinGlycosylation', 'Mutation', 'SymptomManagement', 'SupportiveTherapies', 'Microcephaly']
---

# Gene Information for ALG3 

## Genetic Position:

The ALG3 gene is located on chromosome 3 at position 3p21.33.

## Pathology:

Mutations in the ALG3 gene cause congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG), including CDG-Id. These disorders affect the way that sugars are added to proteins, leading to a variety of symptoms such as developmental delays, seizures, and liver problems.

## Function:

The ALG3 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in the early steps of protein glycosylation. This process involves adding sugars to proteins, which is critical for their function.

## External IDs and Aliases:

- HGNC: 396
- NCBI Entrez: 10469
- Ensembl: ENSG00000163491
- OMIM: 608104
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H0U3
- Alias: CDGId, FLJ40071, MGC10840

## AA Mutation List:

- p.Asn155Serfs*2 (dbSNP ID: rs137853107)
- p.Ala212Thr (dbSNP ID: rs797044575)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels:

There are currently no reported somatic mutations for the ALG3 gene.

## Related Disease:

Mutations in the ALG3 gene are associated with congenital disorders of glycosylation, specifically CDG-Id.

## Treatment and Prognosis:

There is currently no cure for CDG disorders, but treatment is focused on managing symptoms. Prognosis can vary depending on the severity of symptoms and the specific mutation.

## Drug Response:

There is currently no targeted drug therapy for CDG disorders, but symptoms may be managed with supportive therapies.

## Related Papers:

- Subject: Congenital disorders of glycosylation
- Author: Freeze, Hudson H.
- DOI: 10.1038/sj.ejhg.5202024

- Subject: Mutations in ALG3 Cause Progressive Microcephaly, Congenital Glycosylation Deficiency, and Epilepsy
- Author: Denecke, Jonas et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2014.07.001

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**