---
title: "MAP3K13"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: MAP3K13"
tags: ['MAP3K13', 'MAPKsignalingpathway', 'cancer', 'mutation', 'targetedtherapy', 'prognosis', 'drugresponse', 'geneticanalysis']
---

## Gene: MAP3K13

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 3
- Chromosome band: 3q22.3
- Start position: 132,463,890 bp
- End position: 132,800,792 bp

### Pathology and Function
MAP3K13 (Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinase Kinase 13), also known as LZK, is involved in the activation of MAPK signaling pathway. This pathway plays a crucial role in many cellular processes like proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. Mutations in MAP3K13 have been linked to different types of cancers, including colorectal cancer, breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and lung cancer. In addition, scaffold protein PDZ domain containing 1 (PDZK1) has been identified as an interacting partner of MAP3K13.

### External IDs and Aliases 
- HGNC: 6846
- NCBI Entrez: 7786
- Ensembl: ENSG00000114205
- OMIM: 602301
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y6R4

Aliases:
- LZK
- ZAK
- MLK7
- MAPKKK7 

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Thr120Met with dbSNP ID: rs147553174
- p.Arg303Trp with dbSNP ID: rs55854280
- p.Met314_Lys315del with dbSNP ID: rs56185445

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.4051G>A with dbSNP ID: rs372997216
- c.5125C>T with dbSNP ID: rs755743587
- c.729C>T with dbSNP ID: rs371487014

### Related Disease
Mutations in MAP3K13 have been associated with a susceptibility to colorectal cancer. Also, different types of cancers like breast, ovarian, and lung cancer have shown to exhibit dysregulations in the MAPK signaling pathway.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for these types of cancers with mutated MAP3K13 includes targeted therapy, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, hormone therapy, or some combination of these depending on the specific cancer type, stage, and additional factors. The prognosis can vary depending on the stage of cancer and effectiveness of treatment.

### Drug Response
Different drugs have been identified that target the MAPK signaling pathway, including MEK inhibitors, BRAF inhibitors, and ERK inhibitors. The use of these drugs may vary depending on the specific type of cancer, stage and genetic alterations of the disease.

### Related Papers:
- Subject: MAP3K13 transcript overexpression is associated with poor prognosis and susceptibility to colorectal cancer.
  - Author: Luo, D., et al.
  - DOI: 10.2147/CMAR.S207655 
- Subject: Cytoscape plug-in Metatropper supports the analysis of rare deleterious germline mutations in postmenopausal Caucasian women with breast cancer without a detected BRCA1/2 mutation. 
  - Author: Michalska, M.M., et al.
  - DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0234086

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**