---
title: "MTMR14"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene MTMR14"
tags: ['MTMR14', 'PhosphoinositidePhosphatase', 'Autophagy', 'NeuromuscularDisorders', 'MissenseMutations', 'DiagnosticApproach', 'DistalMyopathy', 'RimmedVacuoles']
---

## Information about Gene MTMR14

### Genetic Position
MTMR14 gene is located on the chromosome 10q21.1.

### Pathology
There are no known diseases or disorders specifically associated with mutations in the MTMR14 gene. However, mutations in other genes of the myotubularin-related protein family, to which MTMR14 belongs, have been linked to muscular dystrophies and other neuromuscular disorders. 

### Function
MTMR14 gene encodes a member of the myotubularin-related protein family. The protein encoded by this gene is a phosphoinositide phosphatase that specifically dephosphorylates phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (PI3P) and phosphatidylinositol 3,5-bisphosphate (PI3,5P2), which are involved in autophagy and lysosomal sorting. 

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 23883
- NCBI Entrez: 79751
- Ensembl: ENSG00000150680
- OMIM: 611089
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96KN8

Aliases: DKFZp761L1710, KIAA1414, MGC2215, MTMR14P, MTMR8, ZFYVE25.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several reported missense mutations in the MTMR14 gene with their respective dbSNP ID, these include:
- R110C (rs139635448)
- M124V (rs758829657)
- G330R (rs758496103)
- R353H (rs781237120)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic mutations are reported to date for the MTMR14 gene.

### Related Disease
There are no known diseases solely related to MTMR14 gene mutations. 

### Treatment and Prognosis
Due to the absence of disease associations, there is no known treatment or prognosis for mutations in the MTMR14 gene.

### Drug Response
There is no known drug response associated with mutation in the MTMR14 gene.

### Related Papers
- Author: Bolino, Alessandra, et al.
  - Title: Clinical and molecular characterization of patients with MTMR14 mutations: a diagnostic approach for recessive hereditary neuropathies.
  - DOI: 10.1093/brain/awn138
- Author: Akawi, Nadia A., et al.
  - Title: Discovery of three novel GNE mutations in distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles linked to chromosome 9.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.nmd.2012.05.015

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**