---
title: "DYNC2H1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene DYNC2H1"
tags: ['DYNC2H1', 'CiliaryDyskinesia', 'OuterDyneinArmComplex', 'RespiratoryInfections', 'GeneticDisorder', 'PCD', 'TreatmentManagement', 'MutationAnalysis']
---

## Gene DYNC2H1

### Genetic Position
DYNC2H1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 11 (11q22.3).

### Pathology
Mutations in DYNC2H1 have been linked with ciliary dyskinesia, a genetic disorder that affects the motility of cilia. This results in impaired clearance of mucus from the respiratory tract, leading to chronic respiratory infections, fertility problems, and other complications.

### Function
DYNC2H1 encodes for the dynein cytoplasmic 2 heavy chain 1 protein, which is a component of the outer dynein arm complex. This complex is essential for the proper function and motility of cilia in cells of the respiratory, reproductive, and other systems.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 10079
- NCBI Entrez: 79659
- Ensembl: ENSG00000067113
- OMIM: 603297
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q14204
- Aliases: DHC2, DNHD2

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Lys2849AsnfsTer4 (frameshift, rs1554168595)
- p.Arg2150Ter (nonsense, rs374886346)
- p.Leu489Pro (missense, rs200718105)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP IDs for DYNC2H1.

### Related Disease
Primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD)

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for PCD, and treatment is usually focused on managing symptoms. This may involve antibiotics to treat infections, bronchodilators to open up airways, or mucolytic agents to help clear mucus from the respiratory tract. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disease and how early it is diagnosed.

### Drug Response
There is no known drug treatment that directly targets mutations in DYNC2H1. However, some medications may be used to manage symptoms of PCD, as mentioned above.

### Related Papers
1. "DYNC2H1 mutations associated with neurological diseases impair processivity of dynein-dynactin-cargo adaptor complexes." ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s40478-021-01229-7))
2. "Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia: Recent Advances in Diagnosis, Genetics, and Management." ([Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/biomedicines9010007))
3. "A cross-sectional analysis of age and clinical symptoms at initiation of CFTR modulator therapy in people with cystic fibrosis." ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00431-021-04119-4))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**