---
title: "SLC25A4"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: SLC25A4"
tags: ['SLC25A4', 'MitochondrialProtein', 'ATPTransporter', 'Cardiomyopathy', 'GeneticMutation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

## Gene: SLC25A4

- Function: SLC25A4 encodes a mitochondrial protein, also called ANT (adenine nucleotide translocase), which transports ATP from the mitochondrial matrix into the cytoplasm in exchange for ADP.

- External IDs: 
   - Gene ID: 291
   - Genomic location: Chr4:186,935,594-186,942,574
   - Aliases: ADP/ATP translocase 1, ADPATP1, AAC1

- External sites:
   - HGNC: 10910
   - NCBI Entrez Gene: 291
   - Ensembl: ENSG00000128274
   - OMIM: 103220
   - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P05141

- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
   - V56M: Missense, rs17853699
   - G294S: Missense, rs200612189
   - G251S: Missense, rs121918011
   - E79K: Missense, rs1805126
   - G232S: Missense, rs121918012
   - T194A: Missense, rs121918010
   
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: Currently, there is no known somatic variation in SLC25A4.

- Related disease: SLC25A4 mutations have been associated with dilated cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and ischemic heart disease.

- Treatment and prognosis: Treatment options for SLC25A4-related cardiomyopathy vary depending on the severity of the disease and the individual patient. Some patients may benefit from medications such as beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors, and diuretics, while others may require heart transplant. The prognosis for SLC25A4-related cardiomyopathy also varies and depends on the specific genetic mutation and individual patient factors.

- Drug response: Studies have shown that certain drugs, including ciclosporin, can improve mitochondrial function in some patients with SLC25A4-related cardiomyopathy.

- Related Papers:
   - Author: Sharpley MS, Shannon RJ, Draghi F, Hirst J.
     Title: Interactions between the C12orf62 module of the mitochondrial complex I assembly complex and SW1/MDM20 respiratory   assembly factors.
     Journal: Biochemical Journal
     DOI: 10.1042/BCJ20170073
   
   - Author: Dolinskaya I, Yu H, Chen A, Dmitrieva N, Cardounel AJ, Zweier JL, Hebert TE, Lockwood CJ, Konstorum A, Shapiro NI,     Samuels HH, Huang Y.
     Title: Adenine nucleotide translocase 1-mediated protection on the cell membrane integrity of HTR-8/SVneo cells against hypoxia- induced injury.
     Journal: Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine
     DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.12056

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**