---
title: "CLN8"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene CLN8"
tags: ['CLN8', 'NeuronalCeroidLipofuscinosis', 'NCL8', 'GeneticDisorder', 'EndoplasmicReticulum', 'Lysosomes', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'MutationAnalysis']
---

## Information about gene CLN8

### Genetic Position
The gene CLN8 is located on chromosome 8p23.3.

### Pathology
Mutations in the CLN8 gene are associated with neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 8 (NCL8), a rare autosomal-recessive disorder characterized by progressive neurological deterioration, epilepsy, visual impairment, and cerebellar ataxia.

### Function
The CLN8 gene encodes a transmembrane protein mainly localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC). The protein interacts with other membrane proteins, such as the ATPase ATP13A2, and is involved in the transport of lipids and proteins to the lysosomes.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: HGNC:3585
- Entrez Gene ID: 2050
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000105597
- OMIM ID: 601780
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: O60931

Aliases: 
- C8orf61
- EPMR
- KIAA1424

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Cys209Tyr (rs373032181)
- p.Leu96Pro (rs121434227)
- p.Asn180Ser (rs387906595)
- p.Thr10Asn (rs372883266)
- p.Arg18Ter (rs796054966)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no reported information on somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID for the CLN8 gene.

### Related Disease
The CLN8 gene is associated with the following diseases:
- Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinosis 8, Turkish Variant (NCL8-TV)
- Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinosis 8 (NCL8)
- Epilepsy Progressive Myoclonic 4B (EPM4B)

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 8. Treatment options are usually symptomatic and supportive and may include medications to control seizures, physical therapy, and, in some cases, dietary modifications.

### Drug Response
There is no available information on drug response related to the CLN8 gene.

### Related Papers
- **Subject:** Mutation analysis of the CLN8 gene in Turkish patients with neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 8 (NCL8) disorder (NCL8-TV).
**Author:** Unal O et al.
**DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12883-020-01844-7)

- **Subject:** Novel CLN8 mutations confirm the clinical and ethnic diversity of late infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis.
**Author:**Mole SE et al.
**DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1086/301915)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**