---
title: "SPG25"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information for SPG25"
tags: ['SPG25', 'HereditarySpasticParaplegia', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorder', 'ProteinSpastizin', 'MissenseMutation', 'NoKnownCure', 'SymptomControl', 'OverlappingClinicalFeatures']
---

## Gene Information for SPG25
### Gene Position, Pathology, and Function
Symbol: SPG25

Name: Spastic paraplegia 25 (autosomal recessive, with a type of mental retardation)

Locus: Chromosome 8 (8q)

Pathology: SPG25 is a type of Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia (HSP), which is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive lower limb spasticity and weakness.

Function: SPG25 encodes the Protein Spastizin, which is involved in neuronal development and autophagy. Mutations in this gene cause neurodegeneration and abnormal neuronal development.


### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 11436
- NCBI Entrez: 79689
- Ensembl: ENSG00000160558
- OMIM: 608100
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96JI7

Aliases: KIAA1958, SPG25L


### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
AA mutation: p.Arg741Trp

Mutation Type: Missense

dbSNP ID: rs769080882


### Related Disease
SPG25 is associated with Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia (HSP), which is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive lower limb spasticity and weakness.


### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no known cure or standardized treatment for SPG25. Treatment is based on controlling symptoms such as muscle spasticity and weakness. The prognosis for SPG25 can vary greatly depending on the severity of the disease.


### Drug Response
There is currently no known drug or drug response for SPG25.


### Related Papers and DOI Links
- Name: Hereditary spastic paraplegia SPG25 gene: a novel alternative splice gives rise to a mitochondrial fission-related protein.
  - Author: Esteves T, Durr A, Mundwiller E, Loureiro JL, Boutry M, Gonzalez MA, Mayer M, Coutinho P, Silveira I, Brice A, Stevanin G.
  - DOI: 10.1136/jmg.2007.053504
  
- Name: SPG25 and SPG11: allelic disorders of overlapping clinical and paraclinical features.
  - Author: Stevanin G, Santorelli FM, Azzedine H, Coutinho P, Chomilier J, Denora PS, Martin E, Ouvrard-Hernandez AM, Tessa A, Turkmen S, Yepiskoposyan L, Züchner S, Durr A, Truncellito DE, Troncoso M, Pons DJ, Stojkovic T, Weissenbach J, Drabkin HA, Brice A.
  - DOI: 10.1002/humu.21282

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**