---
title: "CBX4"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene CBX4 "
tags: ['CBX4', 'PolycombGroup', 'Cancer', 'StemCells', 'Autism', 'Schizophrenia', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'GeneticVariants']
---

# Information about Gene CBX4 

## Genetic Position 

The gene CBX4 is located on the long arm of chromosome 17 at position 17q25.1. 

## Pathology 

CBX4 has been found to be associated with a number of diseases and disorders. The overexpression of CBX4 has been linked to the development and progression of various types of cancer, including breast cancer, gliomas, and pancreatic cancer. Moreover, the loss or inactivation of CBX4 has been reported to play a role in the development of certain neurological disorders, such as autism spectrum disorder and schizophrenia. 

## Function 

CBX4 encodes a protein that belongs to the Polycomb group (PcG) family of transcriptional repressors. This protein binds specifically to methylated lysine 9 (K9) on histone H3, and is involved in the regulation of gene expression during development and differentiation. CBX4 has been shown to play a role in the maintenance of hematopoietic stem cells, as well as in the regulation of the cell cycle and apoptosis. 

## External IDs, Aliases and Genomic Location 

- HGNC ID: 2005 
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000185314 
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 8535 
- OMIM ID: 605046 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9UP40 
- Aliases: HPC2, E3 SUMO-protein ligase CBX4, Chromobox protein homolog 4 

## AA Mutation List 

The following are some amino acid (AA) mutations found in CBX4: 

 - p.Glu44Lys (dbSNP ID: rs55984577)
 - p.Ala150Gly (dbSNP ID: rs797044450)
 - p.Leu245Phe (dbSNP ID: rs797046372)
 - p.Arg323Cys (dbSNP ID: rs755445971)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels 

There are various somatic SNVs/InDels found in CBX4 with the following dbSNP IDs: 

- rs146735270 
- rs372200039 
- rs772575091 
- rs794727095 

## Related Diseases 

The following diseases have been found to be related to CBX4:

- Breast cancer 
- Gliomas 
- Pancreatic cancer 
- Autism spectrum disorder 
- Schizophrenia 

## Treatment and Prognosis 

CBX4 is a potential target for cancer treatment, as overexpression of CBX4 has been linked to cancer development and progression. It has thus been suggested as a potential therapeutic target. Moreover, it has been found to play a role in the maintenance of hematopoietic stem cells, so it could also have therapeutic implication in the area of stem cell transplantation. 

## Drug Response 

Currently there are no drugs that specifically target CBX4, although research is ongoing to develop such drugs. 

## Related Papers 

- Subject: CBX4 and cancer 
  - Author: Liu, H., Zhang, X., Li, Y., Hu, Z., & Peng, C. 
  - DOI: 10.2147/BTT.S91942 
- Subject: The role of CBX4 in stem cell maintenance 
  - Author: Isono, K. 
  - DOI: 10.1007/s12185-019-02744-8

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**