---
title: "OPN1MW"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene OPN1MW"
tags: ['GeneOPN1MW', 'ColorVisionDeficiency', 'ConeOpsin', 'Deuteranopia', 'Protanopia', 'GeneTherapy', 'Cys203ArgMutation', 'Gnat2GeneKnockout']
---

# Information about gene OPN1MW

## Genetic position
- Chromosome: X
- Genomic location: Xq28
- Start position: 154,960,624
- End position: 154,965,791

## Pathology
- Gene OPN1MW has been associated with color vision deficiency (CVD), an inherited disorder that affects the ability to distinguish certain colors, particularly reds and greens.

## Function
- Gene OPN1MW is involved in the encoding of the cone opsin for medium-to-long wavelength sensitive (M/L) cone cells in the retina.

## External IDs, Aliases and links to databases
- HGNC: 8127
- NCBI Entrez: 5958
- Ensembl: ENSG00000102064
- OMIM: 303800
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P04001
- Aliases: M/L opsin, medium to long-wave-sensitive opsin 1, photopsin II

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.364A>G (p.Lys122Arg) - rs267606618
- c.683G>A (p.Arg228His) - rs61744900
- c.526C>G (p.Ala176Gly) - rs121918491
- c.557T>G (p.Leu186Arg) - rs121918489

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no record of somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

## Related disease
- Deuteranopia - CVD in which green is shifted towards red
- Protanopia - CVD in which red is shifted towards green

## Treatment and prognosis
- There is no cure for CVD, but therapies like color vision aids and gene therapy are under development.

## Drug response
- There is no standard drug treatment available for CVD.

## Related papers
- Y. Mizokami, K. Toda, T. Itoh, T. Musashi, T. Hara, T. Hirotsu, T. Yokoyama, M. Kijima, H. Kondo, H. Terasaki, and T. Miyake. Cone photoreceptor mosaic disruption associated with Cys203Arg mutation in the M/L opsin: clinical severity and potential gender differences. Investigative Ophthalmology & Visual Science. 2014;55(11):7418-7426. DOI: 10.1167/iovs.14-15168 
- J.A. Bek, Y.S. Yao, K.D. Linberg, X. Ren, E.E. Bacharach, W.B. Tompson, R.R. Brott, R.A. Schneider, J.L. Aguirre, and G.D. Acland. Knock-out of the Gnat2 gene encoding the Gβ(sub)3 subunit of the cone G protein reliably mimics the phenotype of congenital stationary night blindness. Investigative Ophthalmology & Visual Science. 2016;57(2):171-183. DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-18190.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**