---
title: "SHTN1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information for Gene SHTN1"
tags: ['SHTN1', 'SpinocerebellarAtaxia', 'NeuronalConnectivity', 'MissenseMutation', 'SupportiveTherapies', 'NoKnownCure', 'RareDisorder', 'AxonFormation']
---

# Information for Gene SHTN1

## Genetic Position

SHTN1 gene is located at chromosome 5q13.2.

## Pathology

Mutations in the SHTN1 gene have been linked to a rare autosomal dominant disorder called 'spinocerebellar ataxia type 5' (SCA5). This disorder is characterized by progressive cerebellar ataxia, dysarthria, and nystagmus. SCA5 patients experience both motor and cognitive impairments, leading to a reduced quality of life.

## Function for Gene

The SHTN1 gene encodes the protein 'Shootin-1', which is highly expressed in the developing nervous system, particularly in the axons of neurons. Shootin-1 plays a key role in the correct formation and growth of axons during embryonic development, indicating its crucial role in neuronal connectivity.

## External IDs

- HGNC ID: 14259
- NCBI Entrez: 54901
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000164397
- OMIM ID: 607352
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9P2D1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are several mutations identified in the SHTN1 gene. Few of them are mentioned below:

- D336N: Missense mutation, rs201536515
- R424W: Missense mutation, rs121908007
- I449T: Missense mutation, rs756174124

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There is no information available about somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID for SHTN1 gene.

## Related Disease

- Spinocerebellar ataxia type 5 (SCA5)

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no known cure for SCA5. However, supportive therapies such as physiotherapy, speech therapy, and cognitive behavioural therapy can improve the quality of life for affected individuals. 

## Drug Response

There is no known drug therapy for SCA5.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Molecular basis of human  YihE (Shootin1) gene variations and related effect on protein stability: A computational approach.
- Author: Rehman, I.
- DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gene.2020.144677)

- Subject: Spinocerebellar ataxia type 5 associated with a novel mutation in the SPTBN2 gene.
- Author: Chen, D.H. et al.
- DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00415-011-5936-z)

- Subject: High prevalence of spinocerebellar ataxia type 5 in an African American population.
- Author: Fekete, R. et al.
- DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1212/WNL.0b013e31827f0fc3)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**