---
title: "KIF22"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: KIF22"
tags: ['KIF22', 'Mitosis', 'ChromosomeSegregation', 'Cancer', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'Monastrol', 'Prognosis', 'GenomicInstability']
---

## Gene: KIF22

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 16
- Location: 16p11.2
- Strand: Plus
- RefSeq mRNA: NM_001308700.1
- RefSeq Protein: NP_001295629.1

### Pathology and Function
- KIF22 encodes a member of kinesin-like protein family.
- It functions in cell division during mitosis and is involved in the formation of bipolar spindles.
- KIF22 is essential for proper chromosome segregation during mitosis.
- Its overexpression has been linked to the formation of chromosomal abnormality and contributes to genomic instability.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 6343
- NCBI Entrez: 9555
- Ensembl: ENSG00000141164
- OMIM: 603642
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O95235
- Aliases: EG5, KNSL1E, KSP, PSAT1, TRIP5

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No pathogenic amino acid substitutions affiliated with KIF22 are found.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Two somatic SNVs were detected in KIF22: rs75097072 and rs745647812

### Related Disease
- Cancers, such as breast cancer and pancreatic cancer, show upregulation of KIF22 expression.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Inhibition of KIF22 leads to mitotic arrest and cell death, making it a promising therapeutic target for cancer treatment.
- The overexpression of KIF22 in cancer is associated with poor prognosis.

### Drug Response
- The small molecule inhibitor, monastrol, is capable of inhibiting the motor activity of KIF22.

### Related Papers
- Author: Cole RD., et.al
  - Title: Targeting mitotic kinesins: a new cancer therapy?
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.tibs.2004.10.009
- Author: Green RA., et.al
  - Title: Kif18B and chromokinesins confine centromere movements via microtubule growth suppression and spatial control of kinetochore tension.
  - DOI: 10.1083/jcb.201111099
- Author: Tao W., et.al
  - Title: KIF22 promotes tumor progression and metastasis via Wnt/β-catenin pathway in pancreatic cancer.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s11626-016-0061-0

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**