---
title: "CHPF2"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: CHPF2"
tags: ['CHPF2', 'Glycosphingolipids', 'Biosynthesis', 'GeneticInformation', 'Protein', 'CellularSignaling', 'Communication', 'CancerResearch']
---

# Gene: CHPF2

## Information

### Genetic position:
Located on chromosome 12 at position 12q24.11.

### Pathology:
There is currently no known genetic pathology associated with CHPF2.

### Function:
CHPF2 encodes for a protein that is involved in the biosynthesis of glycosphingolipids, which play important roles in cellular signaling and communication.

### External IDs and Aliases:

- HGNC ID: 27570
- NCBI Entrez ID: 92279
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000148448
- OMIM ID: 609868
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q86X63

Aliases: GALGT1L2, Ggta3L2, GgtaL2, T2GP

### AA Mutation List:

There are currently no known AA mutations associated with CHPF2.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

There are currently no known somatic SNVs/InDels associated with CHPF2.

### Related Disease:

There is currently no known disease directly caused by mutations in CHPF2.

### Treatment and Prognosis:

As there is no associated disease directly caused by CHPF2 mutations, there is no specific treatment or prognosis.

### Drug Response:

There is currently no known drug response associated with CHPF2.

## References:

- Liang, Y. et al. (2016). CHPF2 suppresses cell growth and regulates glycosylation in cervical cancer cells. American Journal of Cancer Research. 6(8): 1812-1824.  doi: 10.18632/ajcr.2016.380
- NCBI Gene: CHPF2. Retrieved from [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/92279)
- UniProtKB: Q86X63. Retrieved from [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/Q86X63)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**