---
title: "CYP2B6"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: CYP2B6"
tags: ['CYP2B6', 'DrugMetabolism', 'GeneticVariations', 'DrugToxicity', 'Pharmacokinetics', 'DrugResponse', 'PrecisionMedicine', 'Pharmacogenomics']
---

## Gene: CYP2B6

### Genetic Position:

The CYP2B6 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 19 at position 13.2.

### Pathology:

Genetic variations in the CYP2B6 gene have been associated with altered enzymatic activity resulting in inter-individual variability in drug metabolism and of susceptibility to xenobiotic toxicity. 

### Function:

CYP2B6 encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The protein is involved in drug metabolism, metabolizing about 5% of all clinically used drugs. It plays a role in the oxidation of numerous xenobiotics, drugs, and carcinogens.

### External IDs & Aliases:

- External IDs: HGNC: 2623, NCBI Entrez: 1555, Ensembl: ENSG00000136352, OMIM: 123930, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P20813
- Aliases: CPB6, CYPIIB6

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:

There are several known variants in CYP2B6, including SNPs that are classified as functional and non-functional variants among which 140 SNPs and 18 INDELs have been identified. Below are some examples of important variants:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-------------|--------|
|Q172H|Missense|rs3745274|
|K262R|Missense|rs3211371|
|Q172H|Missense|rs3745274|
|L264I|Missense|rs2108622|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

There are somatic mutations in CYP2B6, some of which are associated with cancer, but currently, no specific somatic mutations have been identified.

### Related disease:

Variants within the coding region of CYP2B6 gene have been associated with a wide range of diseases, including individual drug metabolism variation, drug-induced liver injury, susceptibility to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and other cancers.

### Treatment and prognosis:

In clinical practice, CYP2B6 genetic tests can help predict the efficacy and potential toxicity associated with CYP2B6-metabolized drugs. There is no cure for genetic variations, and treatment depends on the specific disease associated with the variant.

### Drug response:

CYP2B6 variants are known to affect metabolism and pharmacokinetics of several widely used drugs such as efavirenz, bupropion, or methadone, as well as other psychoactive substances, including ecstasy and cocaine.

### Related papers:

- Author Name: Chen G, et al.
    - Title: "CYP2B6 polymorphisms and anti-tuberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity in a Chinese population." 
    - DOI: 10.1186/1471-2350-12-71

- Author Name: Mehlotra RK, et al. 
    - Title: "Multiple genetic loci are associated with Plasmodium falciparum drug resistance phenotypes." 
    - DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0023543

- Author Name: Mukonzo JK, et al. 
    - Title: "Haplotypes of the CYP2B6 gene influence the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of efavirenz and associated central nervous system toxicity in Ugandan adults." 
    - DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkq238

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**