---
title: "DCK"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['DCK', 'DeoxycytidineKinase', 'Immunodeficiency', 'Chemotherapy', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene Information

- Gene: DCK (Deoxycytidine kinase)
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 1q22
- Function: Encodes for a protein that plays a key role in the activation of nucleoside analogues, which are commonly used as chemotherapeutic agents for treating cancer and viral infections.
- Aliases: CDNK, DCK1, dJ422N23.2

## External IDs and Links
- HGNC: 2712
- NCBI Entrez: 1633
- Ensembl: ENSG00000162694
- OMIM: 125853
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P27707

## Mutations
- AA Mutation List: p.Ser74Arg, p.Gly35Arg, p.Arg104His, p.Arg156Gln, p.Asp175Gly
- Mutation Type: Missense
- dbSNP IDs: rs61735389, rs61735392, rs61735394, rs267607283, rs267607284

## Somatic Mutations
- No somatic SNVs/InDels were found in dbSNP

## Related Diseases
- Primary Immunodeficiency with Specific Antibody Deficiency and Autoimmunity (OMIM: 146830)
- Combined Immunodeficiency, Familial (OMIM: 602450)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no known cure for primary immunodeficiency caused by DCK mutations. Treatment is focused on managing symptoms and preventing infections.
- Prognosis depends on the severity of the immunodeficiency.

## Drug Response
- Individuals with primary immunodeficiency caused by DCK mutations may have reduced sensitivity to certain chemotherapeutic agents, like cladribine and fludarabine.
- As with any medication, drug response can vary between individuals.

## Related Papers and Authors
- "Clinical Manifestations and Treatment Outcomes among Patients with Primary Immunodeficiency and Deoxyguanosine Kinase Deficiency" by Chien-Yu Lin et al. DOI: 10.1155/2020/8877329
- "Targeted screening for human genetic disorders with skin biopsies" by Guangping Gao et al. DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aah6753
- "The Role of Gemcitabine in Metastatic Breast Cancer" by Parminder Singh and Ruta Rao. DOI: 10.3390/jcm5010010

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**