---
title: "NPAP1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene NPAP1"
tags: ['NPAP1', 'NuclearPoreComplex', 'GeneFunction', 'AAMutations', 'SomaticMutations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

# Information on Gene NPAP1

**Genetic Position:** NPAP1 (Nuclear pore associated protein 1) is located on chromosome 21q22.3. It spans approximately 10,821 base pairs on the positive strand.

**Pathology and Function:** This gene encodes a protein that is a component of the nuclear pore complex (NPC). This complex regulates the transport of macromolecules between the nucleus and cytoplasm. NPAP1 is predicted to be involved in NPC assembly and maintenance. The nuclear pore complex also has a role in chromatin organization and gene expression. 

**Function for Gene:** The NPAP1 protein has been characterized as playing a role in the NPC assembly and maintenance. 

**External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases:** The external IDs for NPAP1 are:
- HGNC: 7880
- NCBI Entrez: 9733
- Ensembl: ENSG00000154754
- OMIM: 605508
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UNY4

Aliases:
- Nup153 binding protein
- NBP153
- NBP

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:** There are several known amino acid mutations in NPAP1 that are associated with variations in gene and protein function. Some of the most common mutations, along with their dbSNP IDs and mutation types, are listed below:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
| --- | --- | --- |
|V139L|Missense|rs11540654|
|V57I|Missense|rs41323779|
|I123T|Missense|rs200842688|
|T311A|Missense|rs143696404|

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** Some of the somatic SNVs/InDels that have been identified in NPAP1 and their corresponding dbSNP IDs are listed below:

|SNV/InDel|dbSNP ID|
| --- | --- |
|rs147915277|Frameshift deletion|
|rs786204277|Missense|

**Related Disease:** To date, there is no disease directly linked to mutations in the NPAP1 gene. However, disruptions in nuclear transport and NPC function have been linked to the development of several diseases, including cancer, neurodegeneration, and viral infections.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** As of now, there are no treatments or prognoses specifically developed for NPAP1 mutations.

**Drug Response:** There is currently no information on drug response associated with the mutations in NPAP1.

**Subject, Author Names, DOI links for Related Papers:** 
- Subject: Nuclear pore complex
  - Author: D'Angelo MA, Hetzer MW.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1101/cshperspect.a000646)
- Subject: Linking nuclear pore complex function to development and disease
  - Author: Raices M, D'Angelo MA.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tcb.2012.05.006)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**