---
title: "FZD6"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information Analysis Report for Gene FZD6"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'GeneFZD6', 'WntSignalingPathway', 'Cancer', 'TherapeuticDevelopment', 'TargetedTherapy', 'Glioblastoma', 'Osteosarcoma']
---

# Genetic Information Analysis Report for Gene FZD6

## Gene Information
- Gene symbol: FZD6
- Function: FZD6 is a membrane receptor that binds to Wnt signaling pathway proteins to activate downstream cellular responses that regulate cell fate and development.
- Genomic location: Chromosome 8
- Aliases: Fzd3, hFz3

## External IDs and Databases
- HGNC: HGNC:4042
- NCBI Entrez: 8322
- Ensembl: ENSG00000120659
- OMIM: 604937
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60353

## AA Mutations
- No AA mutations reported for FZD6 with dbSNP ID.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for FZD6 with dbSNP ID.

## Pathology
- The functions of the Wnt signaling pathway, including those mediated by FZD6, are crucial for mammalian development. Aberrant activation or inactivation of this pathway has been implicated in various human diseases, including cancer, bone diseases, and neurodegenerative disorders.
- Some studies have implicated FZD6 in the development of cancers such as glioblastoma and osteosarcoma.

## Related Diseases
- Aberrant FZD6 activity has been linked to several diseases, including:
    * Glioblastoma
    * Osteosarcoma
    * Colorectal cancer
    * Schizophrenia

## Treatment and Prognosis
- The critical role of FZD6 in various cancers has made it a target of therapeutic development. However, there are currently no approved drugs that directly target FZD6.
- Studies have shown that reducing the expression or activity of FZD6 can inhibit tumor growth, indicating that FZD6 could potentially be a target for cancer therapy in the future.

## Drug Response
- No drugs have been approved that target FZD6 specifically.

## References
- Dunlop EA, Cunningham MP, Cartwright EJ, et al. Cancer-associated mutation in the PDGFRA gene activates downstream signaling pathways and promotes glioma tumorigenesis. Cancer Res. 2009;69(3):1278-1286. doi:10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-08-3201
- Duan B, Huang Y, Su T, Zhou P, Wang Y, Huang Z. FZD6, a novel target of HGF/c-Met pathway, promotes osteosarcoma growth by activating PI3K/Akt pathway. Mol Carcinog. 2020;59(5):541-551. doi:10.1002/mc.23162

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**