---
title: "KLHL40"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Information about gene KLHL40"
tags: ['KLHL40', 'LimbGirdleMuscularDystrophy', 'MissenseMutation', 'ProteinRegulation', 'SarcoglycanComplex', 'RareDisease', 'SymptomManagement', 'E3UbiquitinLigase']
---

### Information about gene KLHL40

* Genetic position: KLHL40 is located on chromosome 3 at position 3p22.1.

* Pathology: Mutations in this gene have been associated with a form of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy known as LGMDR17.

* Function: KLHL40 encodes a member of the kelch-like family of proteins and plays a role in the regulation of protein turnover and assembly of the sarcoglycan complex.

* External IDs: HGNC: 30306, NCBI Entrez: 57579, Ensembl: ENSG00000198882, OMIM: 616852, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q68CP9.

* AA mutation list: One missense mutation has been reported in the KLHL40 gene - p.Arg419Cys. 

* Mutation type: Missense mutation.

* dbSNP ID: rs150965757

* Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: No somatic mutations have been reported in KLHL40 gene.

* Related disease: LGMDR17 is a rare autosomal recessive form of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy that is caused by mutations in KLHL40.

* Treatment and prognosis: There is currently no cure for LGMDR17. Treatment is focused on managing symptoms and improving standards of living. The prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disease.

* Drug response: There is currently no known drug that directly targets KLHL40.

* Related paper: 
  * Subject: Deficiency of the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM32 in mice leads to a myopathy with a neurogenic component.
  * Author name: Kudryashova E, Wu J, Havton LA, Spencer MJ.
  * DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/hmg/ddi176)

Instructions:
Please write the information in the following format:
# Heading
* Information:
  * Detail:
  * Detail:
* Information:
  * Detail:
  * Detail:

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**