---
title: "FPR1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: FPR1"
tags: ['GeneFPR1', 'InnateImmunity', 'InflammatoryResponse', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'FPR1Antagonists', 'Prognosis', 'Ca2+SignalingPathway']
---

# Gene: FPR1

**Pathology and Function:** 

FPR1, also known as Formyl peptide receptor 1, is a gene that codes for the formyl peptide receptor family. This receptor plays a crucial role in innate immunity and inflammatory response. It is expressed on various immune cells such as monocytes, neutrophils, and macrophages, and it recognizes bacterial formylated peptides. FPR1 stimulates phagocytosis and promotes the production of reactive oxygen species that control bacterial infection and remove the dead cells from the immune system. However, abnormal expression of this gene is linked to various inflammatory, infectious, and neoplastic diseases.

**External IDs and Genomic Location:**

- HGNC: 4028
- NCBI Entrez: 2357
- Ensembl: ENSG00000130711
- OMIM: *136537*
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P21462
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 19q13.3

**Aliases:**

- FMLP Receptor
- FPR

**AA Mutation List with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID:**

- R36Q: Missense, rs61763764
- C69Y: Missense, rs61763457
- V181A: Missense, rs28362491
- A192T: Missense, rs147660755
- V235A: Missense, rs28362493


**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

- No significant somatic mutations reported yet.

**Related Disease:**

Abnormal expression of FPR1 has been associated with various diseases such as:

- Periodontitis
- Atherosclerosis
- Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
- Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
- Autoimmune Diseases
- Cancer

**Treatment and Prognosis:**

The overexpression of FPR1 has been associated with disease progression and poor prognosis. Therefore, downregulating FPR1 expression could be a potential therapeutic strategy in the management of various inflammatory and neoplastic diseases. Currently, there are no specific drugs targeting FPR1; however, several FPR1 antagonists are being tested for their efficacy in pre-clinical studies.

**Drug Response:**

- Several FPR1 antagonists are under development to treat various inflammatory and neoplastic diseases.

**Related Papers:**

- Author: Ye RD, Boulay F, et al.
  - Title: International union of basic and clinical pharmacology. LXXIII. Nomenclature for the formyl peptide receptor (FPR) family.
  - DOI: [10.1124/pr.110.003571](https://doi.org/10.1124/pr.110.003571))

- Author: He HQ, Ye RD.
  - Title: The formyl peptide receptors: diversity of ligands and mechanism for recognition.
  - DOI: [10.1038/nri3463](https://doi.org/10.1038/nri3463))

- Author: Chen Y, Li Y, et al.
  - Title: Formylpeptide Receptor-1 Inhibits Gastric Cancer Cell Growth Through Ca2+ Signaling Pathway.
  - DOI: [10.1177/1756284818803719](https://doi.org/10.1177/1756284818803719))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**