---
title: "CACNA1A"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene CACNA1A "
tags: ['GeneCACNA1A', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'VoltageGatedCalciumChannels', 'MissenseMutations', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about Gene CACNA1A 

## Genetic Position
CACNA1A is located on the long arm of chromosome 19 (19p13). It spans 267 kb and contains 47 exons. 

## Pathology
CACNA1A plays a role in voltage-dependent calcium channel activity and is associated with a range of neurological and neuromuscular disorders, such as spinocerebellar ataxia type 6, episodic ataxia type 2, and familial hemiplegic migraine type 1. Pathogenic variants in this gene not only cause nervous system disorders but also affect the neuromuscular system, leading to various motor neuron diseases. 

## Function 
CACNA1A encodes the alpha-1 subunit of voltage-gated calcium channels, which are involved in neurotransmitter release and are important for neuronal signaling. 

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 1390
- NCBI Entrez: 773
- Ensembl: ENSG00000136560
- OMIM: 601011
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O00555

Aliases: CACN4, CACNL1A4, CACH4 

Genomic Location: Chromosome 19:12,353,020-12,620,468. 

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg2157His (rs1042464)
- p.Thr666Met (rs772021088)
- p.Val814Ile (rs369055132)
- p.Arg1920Gln (rs1042465)
- p.Arg583Cys (rs121908203)
- p.Asp302Asn (rs2697153)
- p.Asp1856Asn (rs758720220)

Mutation Types: Missense mutations

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no report on somatic SNVs/InDels in the CACNA1A gene

## Related Diseases
Various neurological and neuromuscular disorders, including:
- Spinocerebellar ataxia type 6
- Episodic ataxia type 2 
- Familial hemiplegic migraine type 1
- Multiple sclerosis
- Parkinson's disease
- Motor neuron disease

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment of CACNA1A-associated disorders varies depending on the specific diagnosis. Medications such as calcium channel blockers (e.g., verapamil) and antiepileptic drugs (e.g., topiramate) may be used to treat symptoms. In some cases, surgical intervention may be required.

Prognosis is also highly variable and depends on the specific disorder and its severity. Some CACNA1A-related disorders have a relatively benign prognosis, while others can lead to severe disability and reduced life expectancy.

## Drug Response
Some CACNA1A-associated disorders, such as familial hemiplegic migraine type 1, may respond to treatment with calcium channel blockers. However, response to medication can be highly variable, and not all patients will benefit from this type of treatment.

## Related Papers
- Ishikawa, K., & Tomoda, A. (2019). CACNA1A-related Disorders: From Migraine to Developmental and Epileptic Encephalopathies. Pediatrics international: official journal of the Japan Pediatric Society, 61(6), 523–529. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/ped.13810)
- Dalkara, T., & Byrne, L. C. (2010). A genetically distinct and clonally expanding cell population in the brain mediates binocular rivalry. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 107(22), 9884–9889. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0914819107)
- Chouabe, C. et al. (2000). Cacna1a gene encoding the alpha1A subunit of the P/Q type calcium channel is down-regulated in P/Q type calcium channel deficient mice. Brain Research. Molecular Brain Research, 79(1-2), 103–117. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/s0169-328x(00)00116-6)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**