---
title: "HSD3B2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene HSD3B2"
tags: ['HSD3B2', 'SteroidHormones', 'CongenitalAdrenalHyperplasia', 'PolycysticOvarySyndrome', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'SteroidReplacementTherapy', 'AdrenalGland']
---

# Information about Gene HSD3B2

## Genetic Position
The HSD3B2 gene is located on chromosome 1 at the locus 1p13.1.

## Pathology
The HSD3B2 gene encodes for 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 enzyme which is involved in the synthesis of all classes of hormonal steroids in the adrenal gland and gonads.

### Function
The HSD3B2 gene plays a significant role in the biosynthesis of the steroid hormones. It catalyzes the conversion of pregnenolone to progesterone, a critical precursor of androgen and estrogen synthesis.

### External IDs and Aliases
- **HGNC:** 5217
- **NCBI Entrez:** 3284
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000117399
- **OMIM:** 613890
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** P26439
- **Aliases:** 3BHS2, HSDB3, SDR11E2

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several AA mutations associated with HSD3B2 that are reported in dbSNP. Some of them are listed below:
- p.Val155Leu (rs1051303)
- p.Ala221Val (rs75213829)
- p.Gln237Arg (rs35389231)
- p.Ile249Val (rs140879086)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.685A>G (rs145733020)
- c.307C>T (rs755347396)
- c.1090A>G (rs768508912)

## Related Disease
Mutations or alterations in the HSD3B2 gene can cause several disorders, including congenital adrenal hyperplasia and polycystic ovary syndrome.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment and prognosis vary depending upon the kind and severity of the disease. However, treatment and management of disorders involving HSD3B2 gene include steroid replacement therapy, surgical removal of tumors, and other symptomatic treatments.

## Drug Response
There is limited information available on drug response to mutations in the HSD3B2 gene. However, some studies suggest that certain drugs like metformin and clomiphene citrate can be used in the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome.

## Related Papers
- **Authors:** N. Turcu, L. A. Auchus
  - **Title:** Mutations in the HSD3B2 gene in women with polycystic ovary syndrome
  - **Journal:** Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism
  - **DOI:** [10.1210/jc.2014-2082]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1210/jc.2014-2082)

- **Authors:** Y. Tahara, N. Sakamaki, M. Ishii, T. Takagi, T. Imamura, Y. Yamada
  - **Title:** Effects of metformin or rosiglitazone on serum concentrations of adiponectin and androgen hormones in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome
  - **Journal:** Gynecological Endocrinology
  - **DOI:** [10.1080/09513590310001640765]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1080/09513590310001640765)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**