---
title: "ARID4A"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: ARID4A"
tags: ['ARID4A', 'TranscriptionalRegulator', 'Cancer', 'GeneExpression', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'SomaticMutations', 'HippoPathway']
---

## Gene: ARID4A

### Information about Gene
The ARID4A gene, located on Chromosome 1, is responsible for encoding the BRIGHT protein. This protein acts as a transcriptional regulator that controls the expression of various genes. ARID4A is involved in embryonic development, cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis.

### External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- HGNC: HGNC:1626
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 51742
- Ensembl: ENSG00000134463
- OMIM: 604124
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NHS0

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No AA mutations have been reported for the ARID4A gene.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for the ARID4A gene.

### Related Disease
- Studies have linked the decreased expression of ARID4A with the occurrence and progression of various cancers, including breast, liver, and colon cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, no treatment or prognosis can be determined for ARID4A-related cancers due to a lack of understanding of the gene's exact role in cancer development.

### Drug Response
- No drug response or target therapies have been developed for ARID4A-related cancers.

### Subject, Author Name, DOI Links to Related Papers
- **Subject:** The role of ARID4A in various cancers.
- **Author Name:** Wei Q, Zhang L, Hu X, Zhang W, Xu W, Ma Q.
- **DOI Links to Related Papers:**
  - [The ARID4A‑mediated MST1/Hippo pathway activation inhibits cell proliferation and enhances cisplatin sensitivity in hepatocellular carcinoma cells](https://doi.org/10.3892/ol.2021.12470))
  - [ARID4A upregulation predicts a poor prognosis in hepatocellular carcinoma patients through TGF‑β1-mediated epithelial‑mesenchymal transition](https://doi.org/10.3892/ol.2021.12539))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**