---
title: "MYH14"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for MYH14"
tags: ['MYH14', 'Deafness', 'NonMuscleMyosin', 'GeneticMutation', 'DFNA4', 'HearingLoss', 'RareDisorders', 'IntellectualDisability']
---

# Gene Information for MYH14

### Function
MYH14 gene encodes a non-muscle myosin protein. It plays a role in cell migration, cytokinesis, and cell shape changes. Mutations in this gene is associated with an autosomal dominant form of Deafness.

### Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- Gene: MYH14
- Chromosome: 19
- Aliases: DFNA4, NMMHC IIC, NMHC IIC, MYH17B, MYH14E, DKFZp761F0423

### External IDs
- HGNC: HGNC:7575
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 79784
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105679
- OMIM: 608568
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6PIU2

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
| Amino Acid Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| D128G | Missense Mutation | rs150956874 |
| R1387C | Missense Mutation | rs202146760 |
| R1165Q | Missense Mutation | rs267607126 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Currently, there is no known affected somatic mutation for MYH14 gene.

### Related Disease
Mutations in MYH14 gene are linked to an autosomal dominant form of Deafness, DFNA4.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no treatment available that can reverse the genetic effects of mutations in MYH14 gene. However, hearing aids and cochlear implants can help with the symptoms of hearing loss.

### Drug Response
Currently, there are no known drug response or targeted therapies for MYH14 associated disease.

### Related Papers
- Rufai A. Review Article: Genetics of hearing loss: Additional insights from rare disorders. Hearing, Balance, and Communication. 2015; 13(2):63-69. doi: 10.1080/21695717.2015.1057346
- Lin F, Ma R, Scharpf J, et al. A mutation in MYH14 gene is associated with severe recessive intellectual disability, epilepsy, and microcephaly. Scientific Reports. 2020; 10(1):6642. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-63633-2

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**