---
title: "EME1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene EME1"
tags: ['GeneEME1', 'DNArepair', 'CancerSusceptibility', 'BreastCancer', 'OvarianCancer', 'SomaticMutations', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene EME1

## Genetic Position and Genomic Location
The EME1 gene, also known as MMS4, is located on the long arm of chromosome 15 at position 15q15.1.

## Pathology and Function
The EME1 gene encodes a protein that is involved in the DNA repair pathway. Specifically, it is a structure-specific endonuclease that helps to resolve Holliday junctions formed during DNA recombination and repair. Mutations in this gene have been associated with increased susceptibility to certain types of cancers, particularly breast and ovarian cancer.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 7199
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 56929
- Ensembl: ENSG00000166315
- OMIM: 603750
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96BZ9
- Alias: MMS4

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Types
There are several known AA mutations in the EME1 gene, including:
- Arg20Gln
- Arg98Cys
- Pro278Ser
- Gln307Glu

These mutations are associated with different types of cancer, but it is not clear whether they are somatic or germline mutations. Some of them have been reported in the dbSNP database with the following IDs:
- rs121913527
- rs373854166
- rs200805218
- rs79493781

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
In addition to AA mutations, there are also somatic SNVs and InDels in the EME1 gene that have been associated with cancer. Some of these have been reported in the dbSNP database with the following IDs:
- rs201855830
- rs200246991
- rs372848046
- rs373854166

## Related Diseases
Mutations in the EME1 gene have been associated with several types of cancer, including breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and lung cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no targeted treatment for cancers associated with EME1 mutations. Prognosis will depend on the type and stage of cancer.

## Drug Response
There is currently no information available regarding drug response specific to EME1 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Liu X, et al. EME1 promotes genome instability and metastasis through WNT/β-catenin signaling pathway in epithelial ovarian cancer. Front Oncol. 2021;11:671557. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2021.671557. eCollection 2021.
- Edwards SL, Brough R, Lord CJ, Natrajan R, Vatcheva R, Levine DA, Boyd J, Reis-Filho JS, Ashworth A. Resistance to therapy caused by intragenic deletion in BRCA2. Nature. 2008;451(7182):1111-1115. doi:10.1038/nature06548.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**