---
title: "AASS"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene AASS"
tags: ['GeneAASS', 'Hyperlysinemia', 'LysineMetabolism', 'GeneticDisorder', 'Enzyme', 'DietaryChanges', 'SymptomManagement', 'CompoundHeterozygousMutations']
---

# Information about gene AASS

## Genetic position
- The AASS gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 7 (7q31.1).

## Pathology
- Mutations in the AASS gene have been linked to a rare genetic disorder called hyperlysinemia, which is characterized by abnormally high levels of the amino acid lysine in the blood and urine.

## Function
- The AASS gene encodes for alpha-aminoadipic semialdehyde synthase, which is an enzyme involved in the metabolism of lysine.

## External IDs
- Gene ID: 10157
- Genomic location: 7q31.1
- Aliases: Alpha-aminoadipic semialdehyde synthase, Lysine-alpha-ketoglutarate reductase/saccharopine dehydrogenase

## External Sites
- HGNC: HGNC:217
- NCBI Entrez: 10157
- Ensembl: ENSG00000069431
- OMIM: 605113
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O00251

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- No known amino acid mutations have been reported for the AASS gene in the dbSNP database.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for the AASS gene in the dbSNP database.

## Related disease
- Hyperlysinemia is a rare genetic disorder linked to mutations in the AASS gene.

## Treatment and prognosis
- There is currently no cure for hyperlysinemia, but dietary changes and medications can help manage the symptoms. Prognosis varies based on the severity of the condition.

## Drug response
- No information is available on drug response for hyperlysinemia.

## Related papers
- Subject: Hyperlysinemia
- Author: Homma S, Sasai H, Shimada H
- DOI: 10.1111/cge.13444
- Title: A case of adult-onset hyperlysinemia caused by novel compound heterozygous mutations in AASS gene: Overproduced lysine is a potential cause of myoclonus.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**