---
title: "PLCG1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PLCG1"
tags: ['GenePLCG1', 'Function', 'Mutations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'SomaticVariation', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about Gene PLCG1

## Gene information:
- **Function:** The gene PLCG1 encodes a protein which is involved in the activation of various downstream signaling pathways by hydrolyzing the membrane lipid phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) to generate inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) and diacylglycerol (DAG).
- **External IDs and Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 9063 
    - NCBI Entrez: 5335 
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000134982 
    - OMIM: 172420 
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P19174
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 20: 38,947,840 - 39,048,559

## Mutations and Variation:
- **AA Mutation List:**
   - p.Arg707Gln (R707Q) with dbSNP ID: rs121909542
   - p.Ala851Val (A851V) with dbSNP ID: rs397514652
   - p.Thr155Ala (T155A) with dbSNP ID: rs1555394703
   - p.Lys796Glu (K796E) with dbSNP ID: rs35552041
- **Mutation type:** Missense mutations
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:** There are various somatic SNVs/InDels reported in PLCG1 gene which can be accessed through dbSNP database.

## Related Diseases:
- The mutations in PLCG1 are associated with various diseases, such as:
   - Autoimmune diseases
   - Immune dysregulation diseases
   - Malignant neoplasms

## Treatment and Prognosis:
- The treatment and prognosis of diseases caused by PLCG1 mutations are dependent on various factors such as the type and severity of the disease and the patient’s age, health status, and medical history. 

## Drug Response:
- There are various drugs available that target the downstream pathways of PLCG1. However, the response to these drugs may vary based on the clinical condition of the patient.

## Related Papers:
- Foster, J., Fredriksson, L., Östman, Å., & Herbst, R. (2020).  Src, PLCγ1, and PKCδ are required for prostate cancer progression, and their inhibition represents a therapeutic target.  Journal of cancer metastasis and treatment, 6, 56. DOI: [10.20517/2394-4722.2020.25]([Click](https://doi.org/10.20517/2394-4722.2020.25))
- Kim, H., Yang, J., Park, S-J., Seo, H-R., & Yun, J. (2018).  (–)-Epigallocatechin-3-gallate inhibits invasiveness of breast cancer cells by suppression of urokinase plasminogen activator expression via  inhibiting MAPK/ERK and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways. Biological & pharmaceutical bulletin, 41(11), 1745-1753. DOI: [10.1248/bpb.b18-00301]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1248/bpb.b18-00301))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**