---
title: "HBG1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: HBG1"
tags: ['HBG1', 'FetalHemoglobin', 'BetaThalassemia', 'HPFH', 'Hydroxyurea', 'GeneticModifiers', 'BloodDisorders', 'TreatmentOptions']
---

## Gene: HBG1

**Genetic Position:** Chr11:5,262,957-5,264,858

**Pathology:** Mutations in HBG1 are associated with Hb F (fetal hemoglobin) levels and beta thalassemia.  

**Function of Gene:** HBG1 is a member of the globin gene family, which encodes the fetal globin subunit, which forms the hemoglobin F tetramer with the alpha-globin subunit. Hemoglobin F is a variant form of hemoglobin that is produced by the fetus during development and can be expressed in adults with certain conditions. 

**External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases:**

- HGNC: 4821
- NCBI Entrez: 3045
- Ensembl: ENSG00000244751
- OMIM: 142200
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P69891

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**

- c.92A>G (p.Lys31Glu) rs33931746
- c.92A>T (p.Lys31Met) rs33931746
- c.92A>C (p.Lys31Gln) rs33931746
- c.92A>C (p.Lys31Thr) rs33931746

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** 

No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for HBG1

**Related Diseases:** 

- Beta-thalassemia: A group of blood disorders characterized by reduced hemoglobin and fewer red blood cells in the body. 
- Hereditary persistence of fetal hemoglobin (HPFH): A condition where there are elevated levels of fetal hemoglobin in adults. 

**Treatment and Prognosis:**

Treatment for beta-thalassemia includes blood transfusions, stem cell transplants, and gene therapy. Individuals with HPFH typically do not require treatment. Prognosis varies based on the severity of the condition and the availability of treatment options. 

**Drug Response:**

Hydroxyurea, a medication that stimulates the production of fetal hemoglobin, is used in the treatment of beta-thalassemia. Its effectiveness varies based on the severity of the condition and the individual's response to the medication. 

**Subject, Author Name, DOI links to Related Papers:**

- Fibach, E., Rachmilewitz, E. A., & Wright, J. G. (2008). Cellular and Molecular Aspects of the Mechanism(s) of Action of Hydroxyurea Therapy. Haematologica, 93(6), 787–790. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3324/haematol.13057)
- Thein, S. L. (2013). Genetic modifiers of β-thalassemia. Haematologica, 98(6), 833–836. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3324/haematol.2013.083634)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**