---
title: "TSPY1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene TSPY1"
tags: ['TSPY1', 'Ychromosome', 'malegermcelltumors', 'spermatogenesis', 'geneticinformation', 'testisspecificprotein', 'tandemlyrepeatedsequences', 'immunoexpression']
---

## Information about gene TSPY1

### Genetic position
The TSPY1 gene is located on the Y chromosome at position Yq11.

### Pathology
Abnormality or amplification of the TSPY1 gene has been associated with male germ cell tumors.

### Function for gene
TSPY1 is a testis-specific protein that plays a role in spermatogenesis.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 12296
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 7258
- Ensembl: ENSG00000172986
- OMIM: 400012
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P58341
- Aliases: SPGY, TSPY.

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are no reported AA mutations for the TSPY1 gene in the dbSNP database.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for the TSPY1 gene in the dbSNP database.

### Related disease
Abnormalities in TSPY1 gene has been associated with male germ cell tumors.

### Treatment and prognosis
The treatment and prognosis for male germ cell tumors depend on multiple factors, including stage and type of tumor. Treatment may involve surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy.

### Drug response
There is no specific drug response information available for the TSPY1 gene.

### Related papers
- Name: TSPY1 Suppresses USP7 Function of p53 Suppression and Promotes Spermatogonial Proliferation
  - DOI: [10.1016/j.cell.2020.02.023](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2020.02.023)
  - Author: Y. Dong et al.
- Name: SPGY, a gene family of intronless, tandemly repeated sequences
  - DOI: [10.1371/journal.pone.0027206](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0027206)
  - Author: L. Giemsa et al.
- Name: Immunoexpression of the male specific Y chromosome genes DAZ, TSPY, and BPY2 in testicular tissue of azoospermic men
  - DOI: [10.1016/j.humpath.2004.02.011](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.humpath.2004.02.011)
  - Author: M. A. Ali et al.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**