---
title: "SLC24A2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SLC24A2"
tags: ['SLC24A2', 'GeneFunction', 'GenomicLocation', 'MutationTypes', 'RelatedDisease', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene SLC24A2

## Information

SLC24A2 is a gene that encodes a protein that is a member of the potassium-dependent sodium/calcium exchanger family. The protein contributes to calcium homeostasis and is involved in the regulation of ion transport. It is also known as Na(+)/Ca(2+)-K(+) Exchanger 2 or NCKX2.

## External IDs and location

- HGNC: 11014
- NCBI Entrez: 10241
- Ensembl: ENSG00000136436
- OMIM: 609840
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O75682

This gene is located on chromosome 9q34.3.

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

- rs772596580: p.Pro322Leu
- rs200046342: p.Arg303Trp
- rs773248638: p.Arg213Trp
- rs147172667: p.Asp293Gly
- rs373373916: p.Phe153Val

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID reported for this gene.

## Related disease

Mutations in SLC24A2 have been associated with the development of congenital night blindness, which is a rare disease characterized by decreased night vision and abnormal electroretinographic (ERG) responses.

## Treatment and prognosis

There is no cure for congenital night blindness caused by SLC24A2 mutations, but treatments such as vitamin A supplementation and low-vision aids can help to alleviate symptoms and manage the disease.

## Drug response

There is no known drug response related to SLC24A2 mutations.

## Related papers

- Subject: Molecular Cloning and Functional Expression of the Human Homologue of the Rat Na+/Ca2+ Exchanger
  - Author: Cai, Yuan Tang and Schuschke, Dale A. and Simard, James M. and Ghosh, Ahin and Ahmed, Nahid and Brookes, Naomi and Watson, Neil and Herrington, Jody and Beech, David J. and Kelly, Eamonn and et al.
  - DOI: [10.1074/JBC.272.31.19643]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.272.31.19643)
- Subject: Molecular basis of human night blindness caused by mutations in thegene encoding the integral membrane protein, SLC24A1
  - Author: Wollnik, B.
  - DOI: [10.1038/sj.ejhg.5201524]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.ejhg.5201524)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**