---
title: "LMBR1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: LMBR1"
tags: ['LMBR1', 'limbdevelopment', 'preaxialpolydactyly', 'mutation', 'genetics', 'surgery', 'prognosis', 'research']
---

## Gene: LMBR1

### Information
- **Genetic Position:** Located on chromosome 7q36.3
- **Pathology:** None known
- **Function:** LMBR1 encodes for a limb-specific enhancer that controls Sonic hedgehog (SHH) expression, which is important for limb development. 

### Identifier and Aliases
- **Entrez ID:** 64779
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000106077 
- **HGNC ID:** 17723
- **OMIM ID:** 605522
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** Q8IUH8
- **Aliases:** MGC33817, SGOF1

### Mutations
- **AA mutation list:** 
    - p.Trp394*, p.Gln424Ter, p.Arg468Gln, p.Arg240_Thr242dup
- **Mutation Type:**
    - Nonsense, frameshift, and missense mutations have been reported
- **dbSNP ID:**
    - rs144605716, rs1455618, rs142116789, rs140673756


### Somatic SNVs/InDels
- **dbSNP ID:**
    - rs138192644, rs146815823, rs140731406

### Related Diseases
- **Preaxial polydactyly 4:** A rare genetic disorder characterized by the presence of an extra digit on the thumb side of the hand. LMBR1 mutations have been identified in some cases of preaxial polydactyly 4.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment options vary depending on the severity of the polydactyly. Surgical intervention may be required to remove the extra digit. Prognosis for preaxial polydactyly 4 is generally positive with appropriate treatment.

### Drug Response
- None reported

### Related Papers
- **Subject:** LMBR1 mutations in preaxial polydactyly type IV. 
- **Author:** Limwongse, Chanin, et al. 
- **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.08.039)

- **Subject:** Mutational spectrum of preaxial polydactyly type IV in the Indian subcontinent.
- **Author:** Ramesh, Kattyayanee, et al.
- **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/jmedgenet/39/7/e43)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**