---
title: "SCNN1G"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene: SCNN1G"
tags: ['SCNN1G', 'LiddleSyndrome', 'ENaC', 'Hypertension', 'Hypokalemia', 'Diuretics', 'Amiloride', 'GeneticMutation']
---

### Gene: SCNN1G

#### Genetic Position:
- Chromosome: 16
- Genomic Position: 16p12.2


#### Pathology:
- SCNN1G gene mutations have been associated with Liddle syndrome, a rare autosomal dominant genetic disorder.


#### Function:
- The SCNN1G gene encodes the gamma subunit of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) which plays an important role in the regulation of sodium and fluid homeostasis in the body.


#### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 10589
- NCBI Entrez: 6338
- Ensembl: ENSG00000140741
- OMIM: 600760
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60674
- Aliases: SCNEG, ENaC gamma


#### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type:
- p.Ile47del (Deletion)
- p.Met431Val (Substitution)
- p.Arg563His (Substitution)
- dbSNP IDs:
  - rs137853153
  - rs200688899
  - rs137853349


#### Somatic SNVs/InDels:
- No known somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID.


#### Related Disease:
- Liddle Syndrome, a rare autosomal dominant genetic disorder characterized by early onset hypertension and hypokalemia. Mutations in the SCNN1G gene account for approximately 15% of Liddle Syndrome cases.


#### Treatment and Prognosis:
- Treatment of Liddle Syndrome includes sodium and potassium-sparing diuretics and low-solute diet.
- Prognosis depends on effective management of hypertension and hypokalemia.


#### Drug Response:
- Amiloride, a diuretic that inhibits ENaC channels, is an effective treatment for Liddle Syndrome.


#### Related Papers:

- Subject: Liddle Syndrome
- Author: Zhou X, Ding Y, Xie J
- DOI: 10.1007/s11897-019-00447-w

- Subject: Prevalence of Liddle Syndrome
- Author: Persu A, Tentori F, et al.
- DOI: 10.1097/HJH.0000000000002069

- Subject: Diagnosis and Management of Liddle Syndrome
- Author: Wang W, Liang T, et al.
- DOI: 10.1097/XEB.0000000000000484

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**