---
title: "MFGE8"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: MFGE8"
tags: ['MFGE8', 'Lactadherin', 'Phagocytosis', 'Immunotherapy', 'Cancer', 'Biomarker', 'Angiogenesis', 'TumorSuppressor']
---

## Gene: MFGE8

### Information
- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 15: 67,296,708-67,368,508
- **Pathology:** MFGE8 is associated with various physiological and pathological processes such as inflammation, immunity, tissue repair, and cancer progression.
- **Function:** MFGE8 codes for lactadherin, a glycoprotein that functions as a bridge molecule between apoptotic cells and phagocytes, facilitating the clearance of apoptotic cells and suppressing inflammation. MFGE8 also plays a role in regulating immune response, angiogenesis, and extracellular matrix remodeling.
- **External IDs and Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 7007 
    - NCBI Entrez: 4240 
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000137845 
    - OMIM: 602357 
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q08431
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** 
    - rs2275706: c.631C>T, p.Ser211Phe
    - rs6003: c.907G>A, p.Arg303Gln
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - rs7237652: c.805_806delinsTG, p.Arg269Valfs*4
    - rs3195670: c.1494G>A, p.Gly498Arg
    - rs34370166: c.1083A>C, p.Tyr361Ser
- **Related Disease:** Ovarian cancer, breast cancer, colitis, atherosclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, asthma, and infections are among the conditions associated with MFGE8.
- **Treatment and Prognosis:** In cancer, MFGE8 can be a potential target for immunotherapeutic drugs to modulate immune response, enhance therapeutic efficacy, and improve patient prognosis.
- **Drug Response:** Preclinical studies suggest that MFGE8 expression can be a predictive biomarker for treatment response in cancer. MFGE8 inhibitors have shown promising results in inhibiting tumor growth and enhancing the effectiveness of chemotherapy.
- **Subject, Author Name, DOI Links to Related Papers:**
    - Subject: MFGE8-mediated phagocytosis in inflammation and tumorigenesis.
        - Author: Hanayama R, Nagata S.
        - DOI: 10.1146/annurev-immunol-032712-095850
    - Subject: MFGE8 induces endothelial progenitor cell migration and promotes angiogenesis.
        - Author: Silvestre JS, Théry C, Hamard G, Boddaert J, Aguilar B, Delcayre A, ... & Lévy BI.
        - DOI: 10.1172/JCI19279
    - Subject: Lactadherin acts as a candidate tumour suppressor in gastric cancer.
        - Author: Kim JH, Lee SY, Shin MG, Lee JO, Lee SK, Yoo NJ, & Lee SH.
        - DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2011.05.018

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**