---
title: "DLEC1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene DLEC1"
tags: ['DLEC1', 'TumorSuppressorGene', 'LungCancer', 'Mutation', 'GenomicStability', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'PromoterMethylation']
---

# Information on Gene DLEC1

## Genetic Position, Pathology and Function

DLEC1 is located on chromosome 3p21.3. The gene is associated with lung cancer and is a tumor suppressor gene. The function of DLEC1 is to maintain genomic stability and prevent the formation of cancer cells.

## Gene Information

- Function: Tumor suppressor gene 
- External IDs: HGNC: 27095, NCBI Entrez: 9944, Ensembl: ENSG00000114771, OMIM: 604061, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NZ17 
- Genomic Location: chromosome 3p21.3 
- Aliases: deleted in lung and esophageal cancer 1, protein DLC-1, ST12, ARHGAP7 

## Mutations

- AA Mutation List: Several mutations have been reported in the DLEC1 gene, including frameshift, missense, nonsense, and splice site mutations. 
- Mutation Type and dbSNP ID: Frameshift (rs545207139), Missense (rs148623564), Nonsense (rs137853636), Splice Site (rs75079661)

## Related Disease

- Lung Cancer: DLEC1 is a tumor suppressor gene and mutations in the gene have been associated with lung cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- Treatment: Treatment options for lung cancer include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, targeted therapy, and immunotherapy. The treatment plan depends on the stage of cancer and other factors. 
- Prognosis: The prognosis for lung cancer depends on the stage of the cancer and other factors. 

## Drug Response

- There is limited information available on drug response related to DLEC1 mutations, as further research is needed on this topic. 

## Related Papers

- Subject: Inactivation of DLEC1 Gene by Promoter Methylation in Lung Cancer 
- Author: Wang L, Liang Y, Mao Q, Xia W, Chen B, Shen H, Xu L 
- DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2407-10-367)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**