---
title: "BCL2L1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: BCL2L1"
tags: ['BCL2L1', 'Apoptosis', 'Cancer', 'AutoimmuneDisorders', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'DrugResponse', 'ClinicalTrials']
---

# Gene: BCL2L1

## Information
- **Function**: The BCL2L1 gene encodes a protein that is a member of the Bcl-2 protein family. This protein is involved in the regulation of apoptosis and promotes cell survival.
- **External IDs**: 
    - GeneID: 598, 
    - Genomic Location: Chromosome 20q11.21-q11.22, 
    - Aliases: BCL-XL/S, BCL2-like 1
- **External Sites**:
    - HGNC: 991, 
    - NCBI Entrez: 598, 
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000138772, 
    - OMIM: 600039, 
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q07817

## Mutations
- **AA mutation list**: Several amino acid mutations have been identified in the BCL2L1 gene, including:
    - D61V, H123Y, G145A, I201T, N204I, R233W, and G281D.
- **Mutation type with dbSNP ID**: Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and Insertion-Deletion polymorphisms (InDels) have been identified in the BCL2L1 gene.
    - rs28932189, rs483124, rs2853497

## Diseases
The BCL2L1 gene has been found to be associated with various diseases, including:
- Cancer: The overexpression of this gene has been observed in a variety of cancers, including breast, esophageal, and pancreatic cancer.
- Autoimmune disorders: Researchers have found that the downregulation of BCL2L1 is associated with autoimmune disorders such as SLE.
- Neurological disorders: The role of BCL2L1 in the survival of neurons has been implicated in neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease.

## Treatment and prognosis
The overexpression of BCL2L1 in cancer cells has made this gene a target for cancer therapies. Small molecule inhibitors and antisense oligonucleotides targeting BCL2L1 have shown promising results in preclinical studies and clinical trials. Additionally, BCL2L1 has been identified as a biomarker for cancer prognosis. 

## Drug response
Several drugs targeting the BCL2L1 gene are currently in clinical trials, including:
- Venetoclax (ABT-199): A small molecule inhibitor that binds to BCL2L1 and induces apoptosis in cancer cells that overexpress this gene.
- AZD5991: An antisense oligonucleotide that targets the BCL2L1 mRNA and induces its degradation.

## References
- Cheng Y. et al. (2019). BCL2L1 is a promising therapeutic target for cancer therapy. *Bioscience Reports*, 39(6), BSR20181727. doi: 10.1042/BSR20181727
- Leahu A. et al. (2020). The role of BCL2L1 in autoimmune diseases. *Scandinavian Journal of Immunology*, 91(2), e12849. doi: 10.1111/sji.12849
- Zhang J. et al. (2018). BCL2L1 as a therapeutic target for Alzheimer's disease. *Frontiers in Neuroscience*, 12, 95. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2018.00095

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**