---
title: "BANF1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene BANF1"
tags: ['BANF1', 'ChromatinStructure', 'NuclearAssembly', 'GeneRegulation', 'SNPs', 'SomaticMutations', 'Function', 'RelatedDiseases']
---

## Gene BANF1

- **Function for gene:** The BANF1 gene encodes for a protein called Barrier-to-autointegration factor 1 (BAF). The BAF protein plays a role in the organization of chromatin structure, nuclear assembly, and gene regulation.

- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
  - Gene ID: 8815
  - Genomic location: Chromosome 11 (NC_000011.10): 65,276,778-65,304,209
  - Aliases: BAF, BCRP1, NXP2

- **External sites:**
  - HGNC: 949
  - NCBI Entrez: 8815
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000110245
  - OMIM: 603192
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O75531

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
  - There are multiple single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the BANF1 gene, but as of now, there are no reported amino acid (AA) mutations in the protein.

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
  - There are somatic mutations reported in the BANF1 gene, but they have not been linked to any diseases or conditions.

- **Related disease:**
  - There are currently no known diseases or conditions linked to mutations in the BANF1 gene.

- **Treatment and prognosis:**
  - As there are no known diseases linked to BANF1 mutations, there are currently no specific treatments or prognoses for BANF1-related disorders.

- **Drug response:**
  - There is no known drug response related to BANF1 mutations.

- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
  - There are several papers related to the function and behavior of BANF1, but none specifically related to diseases or mutations:
    - *Barrier-to-Autointegration Factor (BAF) Bridges DNA in a Ring Conformation through Intermolecular Binding* by M. C. Goldberg et al. DOI: 10.1016/S1097-2765(00)80536-8
    - *Barrier-to-Autointegration Factor 1 (BAF/BANF1)-Phosphorylation Regulates its Roles in Nuclear Architecture, Splicing Efficiency, and DNA Repair* by F. Zhang et al. DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2015.06.010
    - *The Barrier to Autointegration Factor's Roles in Genome Integration and the Nucleus* by K. S. Sakai and K. L. Greene. DOI: 10.3390/v11010047

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**