---
title: "BRCA1"
date: 2023-04-12 00:00:00
summary: "# Information on Gene BRCA1 "
tags: ['Information on Gene BRCA1', '# Pathology', '# Function', '# External IDs and Aliases', '# AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID', '# Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID', '# Related Disease', '# Treatment and Prognosis', '# Drug Response', '# Related Papers']
---

# Information on Gene BRCA1 

## Pathology
BRCA1 (Breast Cancer 1) is a well-known cancer-associated gene located on chromosome 17q21.31. Mutations in this gene have been linked to an increased susceptibility to the development of breast cancer and to a lesser extent, ovarian and prostate cancer. 

## Function
The BRCA1 gene is involved in the detection and repair of DNA damage through the regulation of cell cycle checkpoint control and genomic stability. Its encoded protein is a tumor suppressor that interacts with other proteins to perform these important functions. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 1100
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 672
- Ensembl: ENSG00000012048
- OMIM: 113705
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P38398

Aliases: RNF53, IRIS, FANCS, BRCC1, PNCA4, BROVCA1, PPP1R53, PSCP, BRCAC1, BRCAI

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are numerous mutations associated with the BRCA1 gene. Some of the most common target the domains of the protein that are important for its function. Here are a few with their respective dbSNP IDs: 

- c.68_69delAG (rs80357723)
- c.5266dupC (rs80357906)
- c.3318G>T (rs28897722)
- c.1953_1958del (rs80357159)
- c.3756_3759del (rs80357168)

The mutations can be categorized as either nucleotide duplications, deletions, or base-pair substitutions. 

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Somatic mutations in the BRCA1 gene have also been identified in different types of cancer. Here are a few examples with their corresponding dbSNP IDs: 

- c.1687A>T (rs28903081)
- c.1380del (rs398122985)
- c.4849T>A (rs6408357)
- c.3063G>A (rs80357983)
- c.2017G>T (rs6512037)

## Related Disease 
As mentioned, mutations in the BRCA1 gene have been associated with the development of multiple types of cancer. Individuals who are diagnosed with these cancers are often recommended to undergo genetic testing to determine if they carry mutations in BRCA1 or other genes associated with the disease. 

## Treatment and Prognosis 
The optimal treatment and prognosis of patients with BRCA1-associated cancers will depend on multiple factors including the type of cancer, stage at diagnosis, patient age and overall health, and the presence or absence of other genetic mutations. Early detection and intervention may improve overall outcomes. 

## Drug Response 
Some studies suggest that individuals with BRCA1 mutations may be more sensitive to certain types of chemotherapeutics which could ultimately impact the therapeutic choices for these patients. 

## Related Papers 
- Narod, S. A., & Foulkes, W. D. (2004). BRCA1 and BRCA2: 1994 and beyond. Nature reviews. Cancer, 4(9), 665–676. https://doi.org/10.1038/nrc1431
- Stecklein, S. R., Kumaraswamy, E., Behbod, F., Wang, W., Chaguturu, V., Harlan-Williams, L. M., … Turchi, J. J. (2012). BRCA1 and Oxidative Stress. Current drug targets, 13(10), 1475–1482. https://doi.org/10.2174/138945012802002682
- Tung, N. M., Garber, J. E., & BRCA1/2 Testing, Treatment Implications (2019). In Annual review of medicine, 70, 1–14. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-med-050317-014851