---
title: "SALL1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene SALL1"
tags: ['SALL1', 'TownesBrocksSyndrome', 'GeneticDisorder', 'GeneMutation', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'RareDisease', 'AutosomalDominant', 'OrganDevelopment']
---

# Information about gene SALL1

## Gene Information
- **Function:** The SALL1 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in the development of organs and tissues before birth. This protein helps control the activity of other genes by attaching (binding) to certain regions of DNA.
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 10496
    - NCBI Entrez: 6299
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000170558
    - OMIM: 602218
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60220
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 16, on the long (q) arm at position 12.1
- **Aliases:** ZNF796, SALL, and RP23-225C15.1

## Mutation Information
- **AA Mutation List:** A list of all amino acid mutations for the SALL1 gene can be found on the UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot website.
- **Mutation Type:** There are various types of mutations reported in the SALL1 gene, including missense, nonsense, frameshift, and splice site mutations.
- **dbSNP ID:** There are numerous dbSNP IDs for mutations in SALL1 gene, which can be found in the dbSNP database.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:** Information on somatic mutations in SALL1 gene is limited and no dbSNP IDs were found.

## Related Disease
- **Disease:** Mutations in the SALL1 gene cause Townes-Brocks syndrome (TBS), which is a rare genetic disorder that affects the development of multiple body parts. 
- **Symptoms:** Symptoms include abnormalities of the ears, limbs, and kidneys, anal abnormalities, and hearing loss.
- **Inheritance:** TBS is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene inherited from a parent is enough to cause the disease.
- **Prevalence:** The exact prevalence of TBS is unknown, but it is thought to be a rare condition affecting fewer than 1 in 100,000 people worldwide.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- **Treatment:** There is no cure for TBS. Treatment is symptomatic and primarily involves surgical correction of malformations, such as ear reconstruction, limb surgery, or anal surgery. Regular monitoring of kidney function is also important.
- **Prognosis:** The prognosis for individuals with TBS varies depending on the severity and specific symptoms present. With appropriate management and care, individuals with TBS can live into adulthood.

## Drug Response
- No information on drug response for TBS was found.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** A novel mutation in the SALL1 gene causes Townes-Brocks syndrome in a Chinese family
- **Author Names:** Qi D, Zhang J, Xiao Y, Huang C, Tang W, Li Q, Zhang X, Liu L, Yang Y
- **DOI Links:** [10.3892/etm.2020.9503]([Click](https://doi.org/10.3892/etm.2020.9503))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**