---
title: "MIAT"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## MIAT Gene"
tags: ['MIAT', 'LongNonCodingRNA', 'MyocardialInfarction', 'Cancer', 'AlzheimersDisease', 'Schizophrenia', 'GeneExpression', 'Regulation']
---

## MIAT Gene

### Genetic Position 
MIAT (Myocardial Infarction Associated Transcript) is located on chromosome 22q12.1.

### Pathology
MIAT has been associated with a variety of diseases, including myocardial infarction, various types of cancer, Alzheimer's disease, and schizophrenia.

### Function
MIAT is a long non-coding RNA that plays a role in regulating gene expression. It is involved in the development of various diseases, including myocardial infarction, by regulating apoptosis, oxidative stress, and inflammation.

### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- Gene ID: 440823
- Genomic Location: chr22:29005939-29031798
- Aliases: Gomafu, RNCR2

### External Sites 
- HGNC: 27026
- NCBI Entrez: 440823
- Ensembl: ENSG00000255332
- OMIM: 611046
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: 

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are no common amino acid mutations listed for MIAT in the dbSNP database.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no common somatic variations listed for MIAT in the dbSNP database.

### Related Disease

- Myocardial Infarction: Decreased expression of MIAT has been associated with the risk of myocardial infarction.
- Various types of cancer: MIAT has been shown to regulate apoptosis and play a role in various types of cancer, including gastric cancer, colorectal cancer, and lung cancer.
- Alzheimer's disease: MIAT has been found to be upregulated in the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients and may play a role in the neurodegenerative process.
- Schizophrenia: MIAT has been identified as a potential candidate gene for schizophrenia.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There are currently no treatments targeting MIAT. Prognosis varies depending on the associated disease.

### Drug Response
There is no information on drug response for MIAT.

### References
- Subject: MIAT gene & disease
- Author Name: Wang, Y. et al. 
- DOI links to related papers: [10.1155/2016/6487342](https://doi.org/10.1155/2016/6487342))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**