---
title: "CDC6"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about CDC6 gene"
tags: ['CDC6', 'DNAreplication', 'cellcycle', 'cancer', 'therapeutictarget', 'CDKinhibitors', 'somaticmutations', 'prognosis']
---

# Information about CDC6 gene

## Gene Background
CDC6, also known as cell division control protein 6 homolog, is a protein-coding gene that is located on the 17q21.3 in humans. It encodes a protein that functions as a key regulator of DNA replication initiation.

## Gene Function
CDC6 plays an important role in the regulation of cell cycle progression and DNA replication initiation. The protein encoded by this gene is required for the assembly of replication-competent chromatin during the initiation of DNA replication. It binds to the origin recognition complex (ORC), thereby promoting the recruitment and assembly of the pre-replication complex (pre-RC) at the origins of replication. 

## External IDs
- HGNC: 1749
- Ensembl: ENSG00000174679
- NCBI Entrez: 990
- OMIM: 602627
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6YNC4

## AA Mutation List
- p.Gln54His (rs34481915)
- p.Ser227Thr (rs45430895)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- c.343G>A (p.Arg115His) (dbSNP ID: rs754386004)
- c.304C>T (p.Pro102Leu) (dbSNP ID: rs764081580)

## Related Disease
Variants in the CDC6 gene have been associated with various cancers, including lung cancer, ovarian cancer, and breast cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no specific treatment available for CDC6-related cancer. However, ongoing research is focusing on the development of novel therapeutic strategies targeting CDC6 and related pathways.

## Drug Response
CDC6 is a potential therapeutic target for cancer treatment. Several drugs, such as CDK inhibitors, are being developed that target the CDC6 pathway.

## References
- Van der Laan, S., & Tsanov, N. (2021). CDC6: An emerging target in cancer treatment. Cell cycle (Georgetown, Tex.), 20(7), 596-607. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1080/15384101.2021.1903803)
- Liu, X., & Jiang, W. (2020). Contribution of CDC6 to tumorigenesis. Oncology letters, 20(2), 1381-1387. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3892/ol.2020.11656)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**