---
title: "CRTC1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: CRTC1"
tags: ['CRTC1', 'gene', 'function', 'mutation', 'disease', 'treatment', 'drugresponse', 'research']
---

## Gene: CRTC1

- Function: CRTC1 (CREB-regulated transcription coactivator 1) is involved in modulating the transcriptional activity of CREB (cAMP response element-binding protein) and plays a role in the regulation of glucose and lipid metabolism. It has also been shown to play a role in the development of neuronal plasticity and memory.
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC:26810
    - NCBI Entrez Gene: 23373
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000160213
    - OMIM: 604141
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6ZS41
    - Genomic location: Chromosome 19 (19q13.2)
    - Aliases: TORC1, MECT1, CREB-regulated transcriptional coactivator 1
    
- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
There are multiple AA mutations reported in the CRTC1 gene. Some of the mutations and their dbSNP IDs are listed below:
    - p.Thr197Ala (rs41265992)
    - p.Arg258Leu (rs71404682)
    - p.Arg397Cys (rs77680534)
    - p.Thr414Met (rs771293809)

- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
  - rs587777283
  - rs762842315
  - rs752784162
  
- Related disease: CRTC1 has been implicated in various diseases, including obesity, type 2 diabetes, and cancer. Specifically, somatic mutations in CRTC1 have been found in various types of cancer, including lung cancer, melanoma, and thyroid cancer.
  
- Treatment and prognosis: Treatment and prognosis depend on the specific disease and mutation(s) involved. Currently, there are no specific treatments targeting CRTC1 mutations, but research is ongoing in this area.

- Drug response: There is limited information available on drug response specifically related to CRTC1 mutations. However, certain drugs targeting downstream pathways or related genes (e.g. CREB) may be effective in treating related diseases such as cancer and diabetes.

- Related papers:
    - Author: Conkright MD, Guzmán E, Flechner L, Su AI, Hogenesch JB, Montminy M.
      Title: Genome-wide analysis of CREB target genes reveals a core promoter requirement for cAMP responsiveness.
      Publication: Molecular Cell. 2003 Oct
      DOI: 10.1016/s1097-2765(03)00436-1
    
    - Author: Takamori S, Ozaki K, Miyaishi O, Tanimura S, Kohno M, Ishida S, Takahashi T, Ito H, Naitoh K.
      Title: Identification of frequent GNAS and CRTC1/3-MAML2 mutations in intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms of the pancreas.
      Publication: Oncotarget. 2017 Sep 1
      DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.17864

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**