---
title: "UMOD"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: UMOD"
tags: ['UMOD', 'KidneyDisease', 'GeneticDisorder', 'Uromodulin', 'AutosomalDominant', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment', 'Mutation']
---

## Gene: UMOD

### Information

- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 16 (16p12.3)
- **Pathology:** Uromodulin-associated kidney disease
- **Function for gene:** Uromodulin (UMOD) is a glycoprotein that is primarily synthesized in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle and secreted into the urine. It plays an important role in the regulation of salt and water homeostasis in the kidney.
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 12575
    - NCBI Entrez: 7369
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000105246
    - OMIM: 191845
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P07911
- **Aliases:** Tamm-Horsfall glycoprotein, THP, URP

### Mutations

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** 
    - p.Trp283Arg (rs61747728)
    - p.Arg229Cys (rs190252292)
    - p.Cys343Arg (rs61747726)
    - p.Cys282Tyr (rs28937309)
    - p.Val461Ile (rs28937312)
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** None reported

### Related Disease

- **Disease:** Uromodulin-associated kidney disease
- **Description:** Uromodulin-associated kidney disease is a rare genetic disorder that causes progressive kidney damage and can lead to end-stage renal disease. The disease is caused by mutations in the UMOD gene, which result in the accumulation of uromodulin in the kidneys and the formation of kidney stones.
- **Inheritance:** Autosomal dominant 

### Treatment and Prognosis

- There is currently no cure for UMOD-associated kidney disease, and treatment is focused on managing the symptoms and slowing the progression of the disease. 
- The prognosis for individuals with UMOD-associated kidney disease can vary widely depending on the severity of the disease and the age at which symptoms begin to present. 
- Studies have suggested that certain lifestyle modifications, such as avoiding dehydration, maintaining a healthy weight, and avoiding consumption of foods high in sodium and oxalate, can help to slow the progression of the disease and improve long-term outcomes.

### Drug Response

- There is currently no targeted pharmacologic therapy available for UMOD-associated kidney disease.

### References

1. **Subject:** Uromodulin-associated kidney disease 
   - **Author Name(s):** Hartley, Jennifer L
   - **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00467-016-3406-y)
2. **Subject:** Uromodulin pathogenic mutations induce ER stress responses in renal epithelial cells
   - **Author Name(s):** Rampoldi, Luca 
   - **DOI Link:**  [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.kint.2013.05.021)
3. **Subject:** UMOD-associated kidney disease is caused by dysregulation of uromodulin traffic in the endoplasmic reticulum
   - **Author Name(s):** Kemter, Elisabeth 
   - **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13073-018-0597-8)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**