---
title: "CSN2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene CSN2"
tags: ['GeneCSN2', 'BetaCasein', 'MilkProduction', 'Immunomodulatory', 'Antimicrobial', 'NoAssociatedDisease', 'NormalPrognosis', 'NoDrugResponse']
---

# Gene CSN2

## Genetic position
The CSN2 gene is located on chromosome 1, specifically on the short arm at position 1p32.1.

## Pathology and function
CSN2 encodes for the beta-casein protein which is a component of milk. The protein is involved in milk production, and several studies have shown that it also has antimicrobial and immunomodulatory properties.

## Function for gene
The function of the beta-casein protein is to transport calcium and phosphate ions into milk and prevent their precipitation. It is also involved in the regulation of milk secretion and has been implicated in the immune response of mammals.

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- HGNC: 1835
- Entrez GeneID: 1447
- Ensembl: ENSG00000116721
- OMIM: 182165
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P05814
- Alias: CGB, CSN, CASEIN, CASEIN BETA, CASB

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.893A>G (rs207078515)
- c.595T>C (rs117524310)
- c.372G>A (rs143091914)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs143091914
- rs28366694
- rs28366696

## Related disease
There is no known disease associated with mutations in CSN2. However, a reduction or absence of beta-casein in milk has been associated with decreased milk production.

## Treatment and prognosis
There is no specific treatment for mutations in CSN2 as they are not associated with any disease. The prognosis for individuals with mutations in this gene is normal.

## Drug response
There is no known drug response associated with mutations in CSN2.

## Related papers
- Author: M.A. Jabed, S.E. Purcell, C. Bregitzer, M.L. Hayes, V. Banik, S.K. Harland, J.A. Reecy, B.A. Rudolph, R.S. Prather
  * [DOI]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-41097-9))
- Author: E. Ramanathan, M. Chakrabarty, A. Mandal, R. M. Reddi
  * [DOI]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12010-010-9216-0))
- Author: F. Galliano, L. Cavaletto, P. Giancaspero, M. Viglio, G. M. Penco, R. Bertino, G. Fabris, P. S. Calabrese, M. Bruschi
  * [DOI]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1745-4514.2003.tb00242.x))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**