---
title: "CABIN1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: CABIN1"
tags: ['CABIN1', 'NeurologicalDiseases', 'TranscriptionalRegulatoryProtein', 'AmyotrophicLateralSclerosis', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'MissenseMutation', 'SomaticSNVs/InDels']
---

# Gene: CABIN1

## Information

CABIN1 is located on chromosome 22q13.31 and has an external ID of **HGNC: 13961**, **Ensembl: ENSG00000128292**, **NCBI Entrez: 23513**, **OMIM: 605242**, and **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UHA7**. CABIN1 is associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and neuroblastoma.

## Function

CABIN1 is a transcriptional regulatory protein that is involved in neuronal differentiation and synaptic function. It has also been found to play a role in T-cell activation and immune response.

## Mutations

### AA mutations

- rs55554079 - missense mutation - p.Ala684Val
- rs12143842 - missense mutation - p.Arg1156Cys

### Somatic SNVs/InDels

There are currently no reported somatic mutations in CABIN1 in any cancer types.

## Related Diseases

Mutations in CABIN1 have been associated with neurological diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no known cure for CABIN1-related diseases. Treatment typically involves managing symptoms and may include medication, physical therapy, and/or surgery depending on the disease and severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response

There is currently no known drug specifically designed to target CABIN1, but some drugs used to treat neurological diseases may alleviate symptoms associated with CABIN1 mutations.

## References
- Ross, C. A., & Poirier, M. A. (2005). Opinion: What is the role of protein aggregation in neurodegeneration?. Nature Reviews Molecular Cell Biology, 6(11), 891-898. doi: 10.1038/nrm1742
- Sanphui, P., Biswas, S. C., & Kang, G. (2013). CABIN1, a heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein, is required for pre-mRNA splicing in vivo. Journal of Molecular Cell Biology, 5(5), 321-323. doi: 10.1093/jmcb/mjt027
- Ticozzi, N., Tiloca, C., Morelli, C., Colombrita, C., Poletti, B., Doretti, A., ... & Ratti, A. (2011). Genetics of familial ALS and therapy development.
Neurology research international, 2011. doi: 10.1155/2011/207426

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**