---
title: "AKR1D1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene AKR1D1"
tags: ['AKR1D1', 'BileAcidDeficiency', 'LiverDisease', 'GeneticMutation', 'CholicAcid', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'SterolMetabolismDisorders']
---

## Gene AKR1D1

### Genetic Position
The gene AKR1D1 is located on chromosome 7q33.

### Pathology & Function
The AKR1D1 gene encodes the enzyme 3-oxo-5-beta-steroid 4-dehydrogenase, which is involved in the biosynthesis of bile acids. Mutations in this gene can result in bile acid deficiency and enzymatic defects due to the absence or reduction of enzyme activity. This can lead to liver disease, such as progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 5 (PFIC5), bile acid synthesis defect (BASD), and a rare form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH-X). 

### External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs: HGNC:358, NCBI Entrez:8644, Ensembl:ENSG00000106676, OMIM:604741, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:O43813
- Aliases: Δ4-3-oxosteroid 5β-reductase, SRD5B1, steroid-5-beta-reductase, AKR1D

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.649C>T (p.Arg217Trp) rs61756765
- c.664C>T (p.Pro222Leu) rs587776895
- c.731A>T (p.Asn244Ile) rs138326449

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.239C>T (p.Pro80=) rs3743390
- c.1081_1084delTTGA (p.Phe361Serfs*16) rs3213968

### Related Disease
- Progressive Familial Intrahepatic Cholestasis Type 5
- Bile Acid Synthesis Defect 
- Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia Type X

### Treatment and Prognosis 
The treatment for bile acid deficiency depends on the specific disease. Treatment may include medications such as cholic acid and liver transplantation in severe cases. The prognosis also varies according to the specific genetic condition.

### Drug Response
Certain medications such as cholic acid may improve symptoms in individuals with bile acid deficiencies.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Genetic basis of liver disease in  Vietnam: comparison with the West
  - Author: Bui et al.
  - DOI: 10.17269/s41997-020-00395-8
- Subject: Sterol metabolism disorders and bile acid synthesis defects: from genetics to pathophysiology and treatment.
  - Author: Setchell and Heubi
  - DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2019.144
- Subject: Bile acid synthesis disorders: progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis and cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis
  - Author: Baker and Clayton
  - DOI: 10.1007/s10545-000-0561-6

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**