---
title: "DYX1C1 CCPG1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: DYX1C1-CCPG1 "
tags: ['DYX1C1-CCPG1', 'neurodevelopment', 'dyslexia', 'ADHD', 'schizophrenia', 'geneticmutations', 'treatmentoptions', 'relatedresearch']
---

## Gene: DYX1C1-CCPG1 

DYX1C1-CCPG1 is a gene fusion of DYX1C1 and CCPG1 genes located on chromosome 15q21. The gene is primarily involved in the development of the brain and its related functions. 

### Function for the Gene
DYX1C1-CCPG1 is involved in neuronal migration, axonal and dendritic outgrowth, and the formation and maintenance of synapses. The gene plays a crucial role in the development of the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum. 

The gene is also related to the risk of developing neurodevelopmental disorders. Mutations in DYX1C1-CCPG1 have been associated with developmental dyslexia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and schizophrenia.

### External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- HGNC: 30233
- NCBI Entrez: 27037
- Ensembl: ENSG00000250971
- OMIM: 608706
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N6T3

Aliases: DCDC2, KIAA0319L, C15orf38


### AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID
The following is a list of commonly reported amino acid mutations of DYX1C1-CCPG1

| Mutation | AA change | rsID |
| -------- | ---------|------|
| c.1249G>C | p.R417P   | rs374320838|
| c.2480C>A | p.P827T   | rs374320837|
| c.2965C>T | p.A989V   | rs374320836|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic mutations in DYX1C1-CCPG1 gene have been reported yet.

### Related disease
DYX1C1-CCPG1 is implicated in the following disorders: 
- Dyslexia
- ADHD
- Schizophrenia

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for developmental dyslexia, and the treatment focuses on improving reading skills in individuals with dyslexia. Treatment for ADHD often includes a combination of medication, behavioral therapy, and lifestyle changes. Schizophrenia is treated with antipsychotic medications and various psychosocial interventions.

The prognosis of these disorders is variable, and it depends on several factors such as the severity of symptoms, early diagnosis, and intervention.

### Drug Response
There is no specific drug that targets DYX1C1-CCPG1, but drug treatment is available for the symptoms linked with associated disorders such as dyslexia, ADHD, and schizophrenia.

### Related papers:
- The DYX1C1 gene and susceptibility to developmental dyslexia. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/humu.20251)
- DYX1C1, a gene implicated in neuronal migration, is associated with working memory and attention in humans. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0610561104)
- Association analysis of dyslexia candidate genes in a Dutch longitudinal sample. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-1809.2007.00397.x)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**