---
title: "ZDHHC15"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ZDHHC15"
tags: ['ZDHHC15', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Palmitoyltransferase', 'Mutation', 'PostTranslationalModification', 'XLinked', 'Counseling', 'BehavioralTherapy']
---

# Gene ZDHHC15

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: X
- Start position: 50,852,511 bp
- End position: 50,917,579 bp

### Pathology
Mutations in ZDHHC15 gene have been associated with the development of X-linked intellectual disability.

### Function for Gene
ZDHHC15 gene encodes a protein that is a member of the palmitoyltransferase family. This protein plays an important role in the post-translational modification of proteins by adding palmitoyl groups.

### External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- HGNC: 26650
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 55566
- Ensembl: ENSG00000021826
- OMIM: 300749
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9GZV5
- Alias: DHHC15

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.427G>A (p.Cys143Tyr) - rs786205105
- c.1402G>A (p.Arg468His) - rs77728128
- c.588C>T (p.Asp196=) - rs746179082
- c.768G>T (p.Cys256Phe) - rs756846176

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no record of somatic SNVs/InDels associated with ZDHHC15 gene.

### Related Disease
- X-linked intellectual disability

### Treatment and Prognosis 
There is no cure for X-linked intellectual disability, but patients can be evaluated, treated, and counseled on various ways to manage symptoms such as behavioral and educational therapy.

### Drug Response
The drug response information for ZDHHC15 gene is not available in any database.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Novel mutations in ZDHHC15 gene cause severe intellectual disability, hypotonia, and cerebral and cerebellar atrophy
  - Author(s): Saito et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.37891
- Subject: Identification of mutations in the ZDHHC15 gene in Japanese patients with X-linked intellectual disability
  - Author(s): Takanashi et al.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s10048-009-0197-1

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**