---
title: "LECT2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene LECT2"
tags: ['GeneLECT2', 'InflammationRegulation', 'ImmuneResponse', 'DiseaseLink', 'MutationAnalysis', 'SomaticMutations', 'TreatmentOptions', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about Gene LECT2

## Genetic Position
- LECT2 gene is located on the chromosome 5q31.1.

## Pathology and Function
- LECT2 encodes the protein leukocyte cell-derived chemotaxin 2 (LECT2).
- LECT2 is involved in the regulation of inflammation, immune response, and differentiation of hematopoietic cells.
- Dysregulation or mutations in LECT2 have been linked to various diseases such as liver diseases, inflammatory disorders, and cancer.

## External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 3957
- HGNC ID: 6572
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000152103
- OMIM ID: 600554
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P51863
- Aliases: LECT2, HC2, p18

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- LECT2 has various missense mutations reported in different populations.
- Some of the missense mutations in LECT2 with their corresponding dbSNP IDs are:
  - p.Ala57Thr (rs149993610)
  - p.Thr66Ile (rs147068705)
  - p.Arg82Gln (rs267608727)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Somatic mutations in LECT2 have been reported in various cancers. 
- Some of the somatic mutations in LECT2 with their corresponding dbSNP IDs are:
  - c.135C>T (rs368048319)
  - c.382G>A (rs385830160)

## Related Disease
- Dysregulation or genetic mutations in LECT2 have been linked with various diseases such as:
  - Hepatitis B virus-associated glomerulonephritis
  - Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
  - Rheumatoid arthritis
  - Colorectal cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment options for LECT2-related diseases depend on the type and severity of the disease.
- Prognosis of LECT2-related diseases also varies depending on the specific disease and its progression.

## Drug Response
- There is limited information available on drug response related to LECT2.

## Related Papers
- Title: LECT2 Functionally Orients the Differentiation of Hematopoietic Progenitor Cells
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.stem.2012.05.016
  - Authors: Thien An Nguyen, Heather A. Arthur, Kenneth D. Gronert

- Title: The biology and pathobiology of Leukocyte cell‐derived chemotaxin 2
  - DOI: 10.1111/cpr.12606
  - Authors: Samuel J. Ford, Christopher T. Eide, Tessa M. Crespo, Keith B. Elkon

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**