---
title: "SLC6A20"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: SLC6A20"
tags: ['SLC6A20', 'RenalAminoaciduria', 'GeneticDisorder', 'AminoAcidTransporter', 'DietaryChanges', 'PharmacologicalTherapy', 'Prognosis', 'InheritedDisorders']
---

# Gene: SLC6A20

## Genetic Position
The SLC6A20 gene is located on chromosome 3 at the position 3p21.31.

## Pathology
Mutations in the SLC6A20 gene have been associated with renal aminoaciduria, also known as iminoglycinuria. It is a genetic disorder that affects the reabsorption of specific amino acids in the kidneys, leading to their excretion in the urine. 

## Function
The SLC6A20 gene encodes a protein called sodium- and chloride-dependent transporter XTRP3, which is primarily expressed in the kidney and plays a crucial role in the reabsorption of neutral amino acids like glycine, proline, and alanine from the urine. The XTRP3 protein acts as a transporter, allowing the neutral amino acids to enter the cells in exchange for sodium and chloride ions.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 11121
- NCBI Entrez: 112912
- Ensembl: ENSG00000163811
- OMIM: 613343
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H1Y3
- Aliases: IMINOG, TAT1, XTRP3

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.A128T (rs121912478)
- p.V272I (rs150798329)
- p.R505C (rs142038036)
- p.S653R (rs200114914)
- p.F661S (rs148454324)
- p.P741L (rs181987271)
- p.L774P (rs371851307)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no known somatic mutation associated with the SLC6A20 gene.

## Related Disease
Renal aminoaciduria is the primary disease associated with the SLC6A20 gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for renal aminoaciduria, and treatment is focused on dietary changes and pharmacological therapy. A low protein diet and supplementation of specific amino acids have been reported to improve symptoms in some patients. The prognosis of the disorder varies depending on its severity, but renal aminoaciduria is generally considered to have a good long-term outlook.

## Drug Response
There is limited information available on drug response related to SLC6A20 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Iminoglycinuria and Glycinuria from New Mutations in Patients, Inheritance, and Renal Pathology
  - Author: Claude J. Migeon et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.1320350305
- Subject: Inherited renal amino acid transport disorders and their importance for clinical medicine
  - Author: Regina G. Hampel et al.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s00467-020-04534-8

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**