---
title: "NDUFAF3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene NDUFAF3"
tags: ['NDUFAF3', 'MitochondrialComplexIDeficiency', 'OxidativePhosphorylation', 'LeighSyndrome', 'Encephalopathy', 'Cardiomyopathy', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'GeneticMutation']
---

# Information about Gene NDUFAF3

## Genetic Position

The gene NDUFAF3 is located on the long (q) arm of chromosome 1 at position 1q23.3.

## Pathology and Function

The NDUFAF3 gene encodes a protein that is involved in the assembly and stabilization of mitochondrial complex I. Complex I is a crucial enzyme complex that plays a role in oxidative phosphorylation and ATP production in eukaryotic cells. Mutations in the NDUFAF3 gene have been associated with mitochondrial complex I deficiency, which can lead to a range of disorders, including Leigh syndrome, encephalopathy, and cardiomyopathy.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: HGNC:28954
- NCBI Entrez: 65264
- Ensembl: ENSG00000119509
- OMIM: 616111
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BV14

Aliases for the NDUFAF3 gene include:

- C1orf127
- CI-B8
- ESSS
- FLJ22667
- MGC3296
- PRO34307

## AA Mutations and SNP IDs

Several amino acid mutations have been reported in the NDUFAF3 gene, including:

- p.Arg3Cys (rs755858055)
- p.Arg54Trp (rs869320448)
- p.Arg87Trp (rs1565907585)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

No somatic variants of the NDUFAF3 gene have been reported in the dbSNP database as of May 2021.

## Related Diseases

Mutations in the NDUFAF3 gene have been associated with mitochondrial complex I deficiency, which can lead to a range of disorders, including:

- Leigh syndrome
- Mitochondrial encephalopathy
- Cardiomyopathy
- Parkinson's disease

## Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no cure for mitochondrial complex I deficiency disorders. Treatment focuses on managing symptoms and providing supportive care. In some cases, specific treatments for certain symptoms may be available.

The prognosis for individuals with mitochondrial complex I deficiency disorders varies widely and depends on the severity of the condition and the specific symptoms present.

## Drug Response

There is currently no standard drug therapy for mitochondrial complex I deficiency disorders. However, some drugs may be used to manage specific symptoms, such as anticonvulsants to control seizures.

## Related Papers

- Subject: NDUFAF3 mutations causing complex I deficiency of mitochondrial respiratory chain due to assembly defects
  - Author: Alston CL, Davison JE, Meloni F, et al.
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2012.12.013)
  
- Subject: Mitochondrial complex I deficiency associated with NDUFAF3 gene mutation: Clinical report and review of the literature
  - Author: Poma A, Di Nottia M, Carlucci A, et al.
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymgmr.2019.100621)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**