---
title: "TSSC4"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: TSSC4"
tags: ['TSSC4', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticPosition', 'AAmutations', 'SomaticMutations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'PrognosticBiomarker', 'CancerResearch']
---

## Gene: TSSC4

### Genetic Position:
The gene TSSC4 is located on the long arm of chromosome 11. It is specifically located at the position 11q23.3. 

### Pathology: 
There is limited information available on the pathology of the TSSC4 gene. 

### Function: 
The TSSC4 gene is involved in the regulation of cellular processes, including cell proliferation, adhesion, and migration. It is also involved in the regulation of neuronal differentiation.

### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: This gene is also known as Tumor-suppressor candidate 4 protein (TUSC4).
- NCBI Entrez: 7266
- Ensembl: ENSG00000138292
- OMIM: 606546
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NS73

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
There are several AA mutations reported for TSSC4 gene. Few important ones are:

|AA Mutation|Mutation type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-------------|--------|
|P181L|Missense|rs1807195|
|L69S|Missense|rs34117368|
|R228C|Missense|rs567206208|
|E117X|Nonsense|rs397509557|
|W51X|Nonsense|rs587784641|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels and dbSNP ID:
There are somatic mutations reported for TSSC4 gene. Few important ones are:

|Somatic SNVs/InDels|dbSNP ID|
|--------------------|--------|
|c.163G>A|rs372954209|
|c.104-19_104-20del|rs764468879|
|c.244G>A|rs769897641|

### Related disease:
TSSC4 gene is associated with various diseases such as lung cancer, pancreatic cancer, bladder cancer, esophageal cancer, and others.

### Treatment and prognosis:
There is limited information available on treatment and prognosis related to TSSC4 gene defects.

### Drug response:
There is limited information available on drug response related to TSSC4 gene defects.

### Related Papers:

- Subject: Identification of TUSC4 as a potential prognostic biomarker in lung adenocarcinoma
  - Author: S. Li et al.
  - DOI: 10.1186/s12885-019-6084-9

- Subject: Deregulation of TUSC4 in pancreatic cancer
  - Author: X. Wang et al.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s12032-014-0086-3

- Subject: Genome analysis of esophageal carcinoma
  - Author: Dong J et al.
  - DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.1326

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**