---
title: "GALNT13"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: GALNT13"
tags: ['GALNT13', 'GeneticPosition', 'Pathology', 'Glycosylation', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene: GALNT13

## Information
- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 2q24.3
- **Pathology:** The GALNT13 gene is associated with several diseases such as cancer, Alzheimer's disease, and autism. Aberrant glycosylation of proteins, which is regulated by GALNT13, might contribute to the onset and progression of these diseases.
- **Function:** The GALNT13 gene encodes a member of the UDP-N-acetyl-alpha-D-galactosamine:polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase (GalNAc-T) family. This enzyme initiates O-linked glycosylation of mucins by catalyzing the transfer of GalNAc to serine and threonine residues.
- **Aliases:** GALNAC-T13, GALNTL1, pp-GalNAc-T13

## External IDs
- **HGNC:** 28974
- **NCBI Entrez:** 84751
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000152225
- **OMIM:** 611480
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q8NBJ5

## AA Mutation List
| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Pro155Ser | Missense | rs139653290 |
| Arg197* | Nonsense | rs143460750 |
| Lys210Glu | Missense | rs149937139 |
| Pro296Leu | Missense | rs201330288 |
| Ser321Pro | Missense | rs140638349 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
| Mutation | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- |
| c.633+1G>A | rs776822367 |
| c.1155C>T | rs150129775 |

## Related Diseases
- Autism spectrum disorders
- Alzheimer Disease
- Carcinoma
- Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
- Stomach Neoplasms

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no established treatment for diseases related to GALNT13. The prognosis depends on the individual's condition and the disease.

## Drug Response
The role of GALNT13 in drug response is not yet known.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** Analysis of GALNT13 gene mutation in breast cancer patients
  - **Author:** Wang J, et al. 
  - **DOI:** [10.4238/gmr16019488](https://doi.org/10.4238/gmr16019488))
- **Subject:** Aberrant glycosylation in Alzheimer's disease brains
  - **Author:** Liu F, et al.
  - **DOI:** [10.1016/j.brainres.2017.09.023](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2017.09.023))
- **Subject:** Identification of autism susceptibility genes by gene co-expression network analysis
  - **Author:** Kong SW, et al.
  - **DOI:** [10.1016/j.ygeno.2013.09.001](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ygeno.2013.09.001))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**