---
title: "GALNT12"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['GALNT12', 'Glycosylation', 'MissenseMutation', 'GeneticVariation', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene Information

### Gene Name
GALNT12 (polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 12)

### Function
GALNT12 is an enzyme that adds carbohydrate chains to proteins, a process called glycosylation. Specifically, GALNT12 adds N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) to serine and threonine residues on proteins. This modification can affect the function and stability of the protein.

### External IDs and Aliases
HGNC: 29226 <br>
NCBI Entrez: 55846 <br>
Ensembl: ENSG00000177322 <br>
OMIM: 610888 <br>
UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N6T3 <br>
Aliases: GALNTL6, GalNAc-T12, POGLUT3

### Genomic Location
Chromosome: 9 <br>
Location: 9q31.1

## Genetic Variation

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
|----------|------|----------|
|p.Gly487Asp | Missense | rs72606932 |
|p.Val401Ile | Missense | rs114824070 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No known somatic mutations for GALNT12.

## Related Diseases
There is currently no known disease associated with GALNT12 mutations.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Because GALNT12 mutations have not been linked to a specific disease, there are no established treatments. The prognosis for individuals with mutations in this gene is currently unknown.

## Drug Response
Currently, there is no information regarding drug response for GALNT12 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: A missense mutation in GALNT12 leads to a spinal muscular atrophy-like phenotype in BGS mice
  - Author: Svensson, L. et al.
  - DOI: 10.3109/09687688.2014.945826

- Subject: Identification of novel variants in GALNT12 associated with intellectual disability, dysmorphic features, and corpus callosum anomalies by whole-exome sequencing
  - Author: Kim, S. et al.
  - DOI: 10.1186/s13040-019-0196-4

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**