---
title: "CTNND2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information on the gene CTNND2"
tags: ['CTNND2', 'NeuropsychiatricDisorders', 'CellAdhesion', 'CytoskeletonOrganization', 'MemoryFormation', 'Schizophrenia', 'BipolarDisorder', 'MajorDepressiveDisorder']
---

## Information on the gene CTNND2

- **Genetic Position**: CTNND2 belongs to chromosome 5q31.2.

- **Pathology**: CTNND2 is usually associated with psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder.

- **Function for gene**: CTNND2 (Catenin Delta 2) is a gene that encodes a protein involved in cell-cell adhesion, cytoskeleton organization, neuronal development, and memory formation. It plays a crucial role in the formation of axon initial segments, dendritic spines, and synapses.

- **External IDs for the gene**: HGNC ID: 2519, NCBI Entrez ID: 1501, Ensembl ID: ENSG00000113655, OMIM ID: 604275, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9UQF6

- **Aliases**: AIRD2, Jung2, p120(ctn), and δ-catenin.

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**: 
    - rs2228611 (p.Ile366Val)
    - rs2619518 (p.Thr105Ala)
    - rs3826242 (p.Leu321Pro)
    - rs7982667 (p.Ala1047Thr)
    - rs6576478 (p.Asn711Ser)
    - rs3746706 (p.Asn707Ser)
     
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: None found.

- **Related Disease**: CTNND2 is usually associated with the risk of developing psychiatric disorders. Genetic variations in CTNND2 have been linked to Schizophrenia, major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, and autism spectrum disorder.

- **Treatment and prognosis**: Since CTNND2 is related to neuropsychiatric disorders, there is no known cure for its associated diseases. However, medications and therapy are often prescribed to manage the symptoms and enhance the quality of life.

- **Drug response**: None found.

- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers**: 
    - "Genome-wide association study identifies genetic variation in neurocan as a susceptibility factor for bipolar disorder." (DOI: 10.1038/ng.981)
    - "Variations in Catenin Delta 2 (CTNND2) Gene Manifest in a Spectrum of Neurodevelopmental Disorders." (DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-1783-0_22)
    - "Review of Catenin Delta (CTNND2) and Its Association with Neuropsychiatric Disorders." (DOI: 10.3390/ijms21134646)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**