---
title: "PEX13"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene PEX13"
tags: ['PEX13', 'PeroxisomeBiogenesisDisorder', 'PEX13Mutations', 'PMPs', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DietaryTherapy', 'AntioxidantTherapy', 'LifeExpectancy']
---

# Information on Gene PEX13

## Gene Position
The PEX13 gene is located on chromosome 7 at the position 7q21.2.

## Pathology
Mutations in the PEX13 gene cause peroxisome biogenesis disorder-11A (PBD11A), an autosomal recessive disorder that impairs peroxisome formation and subsequent peroxisomal functions. 

## Function 
The PEX13 protein is involved in peroxisome biogenesis. It is essential for the import of peroxisomal membrane proteins (PMPs) into the peroxisome membrane. 

## Aliases 
PEX13 is also known as peroxin-13 or PBD11A.

## External IDs and Sites 
HGNC ID: 8848
NCBI Entrez ID: 5199
Ensembl ID: ENSG00000122507
OMIM ID: 601789
UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: O15534

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
* c.260G>A (p.Arg87His) - rs121907972
* c.1497C>T (p.Arg499*) - rs786205005
* c.777_778insG (p.Gly260Glufs*2) - rs776090712

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for PEX13 gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in PEX13 gene have been linked to peroxisome biogenesis disorder-11A (PBD11A) which results in impaired perozisome biogenesis.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for PBD11A at present. Treatment options primarily focus on managing the symptoms and complications of the disorder. Early detection, dietary therapy, and close monitoring may help to maintain health and prolong life expectancy.

## Drug Response
There is no specific drug to treat PBD11A, however, some drugs (such as lipid-lowering agents, antioxidant therapy) have been used in some individuals with PBD.

## Related papers
* Author: Lamari F, Mochel F
  - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1055/s-0034-1389337)
* Author: Savas S, et al.
  - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2019.07.016)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**