---
title: "COL4A2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information on gene COL4A2"
tags: ['COL4A2', 'GeneticPosition', 'Pathology', 'Function', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'RelatedPapers']
---

## Information on gene COL4A2

### Genetic Position
The gene COL4A2 is located on the long arm of chromosome 13 (13q34) and spans approximately 167,000 base pairs.

### Pathology
Mutations in COL4A2 are known to cause a range of disorders affecting the internal organs, muscles, and eyes. These include:

- Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD)
- Hemorrhagic stroke
- Eye abnormalities such as retinal detachment and anterior segment dysgenesis
- Muscle conditions such as myopathy and muscular dystrophy.

### Function
The COL4A2 gene encodes a protein called type IV collagen alpha-2 chain, which helps to form a structural component of various tissues including basement membranes. The protein functions in the extracellular matrix and plays a role in cell adhesion, migration, and differentiation.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 2202
- NCBI Entrez: 1290
- Ensembl: ENSG00000188976
- OMIM: 120090
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P08172

Aliases: Goodpasture antigen-like 1; COL4A2-AS2

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg311Cys (R311C) (rs121912711)
- p.Gly1180Val (G1180V) (rs121912718)
- p.Arg1328His (R1328H) (rs121912721)

Mutation Types: missense

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg1783Leu (R1783L) (rs1057519079)
- p.Asp1648fs (D1648fs) (rs369003258)

### Related Disease
- Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease (ADPKD)
- Hemorrhagic stroke
- Anterior segment dysgenesis
- Myopathy
- Muscular dystrophy

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment options depend on the specific disorder and symptoms presented.
- There is no cure for ADPKD currently, but treatments can relieve symptoms and complications.
- Prognosis varies depending on the specific disorder and severity of symptoms presented.

### Drug Response
- N/A

### Related Papers
1. Subject: Polycystic kidney-disease -- genes, proteins, and therapy. 
   Author: Torres VE, Harris PC.
   DOI: 10.1056/NEJMra1404816
2. Subject: Mutations in COL4A2 cause autosomal dominant porencephaly with cataracts.
   Author: Gould DB, Phalan FC, van Mil SE, Sundberg JP, Vahedi K, Massin P, Bousser MG, Heutink P, Miner JH, Tournier-Lasserve E, John SW.
   DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2005.08.007

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**