---
title: "CDA"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: CDA"
tags: ['CDA', 'Chemotherapy', 'Enzyme', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Toxicity', 'Efficacy', 'Pharmacogenetics']
---

## Gene: CDA

### Genetic Position
- CDA gene is located on the chromosome 1p36.22.

### Pathology 
- CDA encodes for the enzyme cytidine deaminase, which is responsible for the metabolism of pyrimidine nucleoside analogues used for chemotherapy. 
- Deficiency or decreased activity of this enzyme results in higher toxicity and reduced efficacy of certain chemotherapeutic agents.

### Function for Gene
- CDA is involved in the metabolism of nucleoside analogues used in chemotherapy, such as cytarabine, gemcitabine and decitabine, by catalysing the deamination of cytidine and deoxycytidine.

### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- HGNC: 1778
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 978
- Ensembl: ENSG00000117650
- OMIM: 603047
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P32320 
- Aliases: CDD, DC, DU, RRM3

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- There are various AA mutations for CDA, including:
    - p.Arg27Cys (rs104894682)
    - p.Asn76Asp (rs3760660)
    - p.Arg142Gln (rs370009044)
    - p.Asp216Gly (rs143980619)
- These mutations are missense mutations and are associated with altered enzyme activity.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Some somatic variants of CDA gene include:
    - c.445G>A (rs61738661)
    - c.524G>A (rs61741629)
    - c.63A>T (rs61741631)

### Related Disease
- CDA deficiency is associated with increased toxicity and reduced efficacy of certain chemotherapeutic agents such as cytarabine and gemcitabine, which could lead to acute organ toxicity or death.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- The treatment for CDCA deficiency includes using alternative chemotherapeutic agents. 
- The prognosis can vary based on the underlying condition, as well as the stage and type of cancer being treated.

### Drug response
- Variations in the CDA gene can impact how well certain chemotherapy drugs are metabolized by the body. Reduced activity of CDA can lead to increased toxicity and reduced efficacy of certain nucleoside analogues, while increased activity can lead to a decreased response to certain chemotherapy drugs.

### Related Papers 
- Author: Derouazi et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ymeth.2010.04.019
  - Title: Cytoplasmic expression of anti-CDA scFv increases the intracellular concentration of active cytidine analogues
- Author: Saif et al.
  - DOI: 10.1155/2011/297317
  - Title: Pharmacogenetic Considerations in the Treatment of Pancreatic Cancer

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**