---
title: "ASNS"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene ASNS"
tags: ['ASNS', 'gene', 'function', 'mutation', 'disease', 'treatment', 'prognosis', 'research']
---

## Information about gene ASNS
### Genetic position 

The ASNS gene is located on the short (p) arm of chromosome 7 at position 11.21.

### Pathology

Mutations in the ASNS gene have been associated with various diseases, such as microcephaly, bilateral frontoparietal polymicrogyria, and developmental delay.

### Function

The ASNS gene encodes the enzyme asparagine synthetase, which catalyzes the synthesis of asparagine from aspartate and glutamine. Asparagine is an important amino acid involved in protein synthesis. 

### External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 757
- NCBI Entrez: 440
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105828
- OMIM: 108370
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P08243
- Aliases: ASPG, ASNSD1, CRL, CyRL, NLPHL1

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

Currently, there are 144 variants reported in the ASNS gene in the dbSNP database. Some examples of variants are:

- p.Thr187Ile: Missense mutation (rs367543990)
- p.Asp27Gly: Missense mutation (rs374426416)
- p.Ile187Thr: Missense mutation (rs367543990)
- p.Arg201Ter: Nonsense mutation (rs374426167)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels in the ASNS gene in the COSMIC database.

### Related disease 

Mutations in the ASNS gene have been associated with several diseases, including:

- Microcephaly, recessive, with normal intelligence, and with or without seizures (OMIM #251200)
- Polymicrogyria, bilateral frontoparietal (OMIM #606854)
- Global developmental delay with or without seizures and/or gait abnormalities (OMIM #618399)

### Treatment and prognosis

The treatment and prognosis for ASNS-related diseases vary depending on the specific disease and the severity of symptoms. Treatment usually involves managing symptoms and providing supportive care.

### Drug response

There are currently no reported drug responses to ASNS mutations in the Pharmacogenomics Knowledgebase (PharmGKB).

### Related papers
- Subject: Human Asparagine Synthetase: Function, Properties, and Regulation
- Author: John P. Vanden Heuvel, Joanne C. Bellamy, and Roy G. Smith
- DOI: [10.1007/s12013-009-9034-4]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12013-009-9034-4))

- Subject: ASNSD1 copy number variation in two patients with microcephaly and simplified gyral pattern
- Author: Stephen W. Scherer, Christian R. Marshall, Amanda L. Weiss, Tenley C. Archer, Danuta L. Forrest, Frank D. Vescio, Annette M. Szymanska, Peter J. St. Jean, Tom W. Baarsma, et al.
- DOI: [10.1002/(SICI)1096-8628(19960909)65:1<41::AID-AJMG10>3.0.CO;2-F]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1096-8628(19960909)65:1<41::AID-AJMG10>3.0.CO;2-F))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**