---
title: "FIGLA"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene FIGLA"
tags: ['FIGLA', 'PrematureOvarianInsufficiency', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'GermCells', 'HormoneReplacementTherapy', 'Mutation', 'GeneticInformation', 'Folliculogenesis']
---

# Gene FIGLA

Gene FIGLA is located on chromosome 2q33.3 and encodes for a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor that is predominantly expressed in germ cells and plays a crucial role in early folliculogenesis in the ovary.

## Function for Gene

FIGLA protein regulates the expression of other genes, and its absence can affect early folliculogenesis which can lead to premature ovarian insufficiency.

## External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, and Aliases

- HGNC: 28471
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 344018
- Ensembl: ENSG00000162822
- OMIM: 608697
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NI51
- Genomic Location: 2q33.3
- Aliases: FFIGLA, Factor in the germline alpha

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are various AA mutations of the FIGLA gene listed in dbSNP and other databases. Some of them are as follows:

|Mutation Type|AA Mutation|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|Missense|M1?V|rs201409663|
|Missense|M139?V|rs201128866|
|Missense|V159A|rs374034388|
|Missense|S167C|rs1566723624|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no known somatic SNVs or InDels for the FIGLA gene.

## Related Disease

Mutations in the FIGLA gene have been linked to premature ovarian insufficiency and primary ovarian insufficiency in women.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no known cure for premature ovarian insufficiency caused by a mutation in the FIGLA gene. However, hormone replacement therapy may help in controlling the symptoms and maintaining fertility in some cases.

## Drug Response

There is currently no known drug response related to the FIGLA gene.

## Subject, Author Name, DOI Links to Related Papers

1. Title: Mutations in Different Components of FSH Signaling Pathway Cause Premature Ovarian Insufficiency: An Update Review
   - DOI: 10.2174/1871520617666170724100535
   - Author: Sukhpreet Patel

2. Title: Genome-wide association study identifies novel susceptibility loci for premature ovarian failure risk in Chinese women
   - DOI: 10.1186/s12958-017-0319-1
   - Author: Jian Hou, et al.

3. Title: A novel missense mutation of FIGLA gene identified in a young woman with premature ovarian failure.
   - DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2016.08.015
   - Author: Ankita Malik, et al.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**