---
title: "B9D2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene B9D2"
tags: ['B9D2', 'Ciliogenesis', 'MeckelSyndrome', 'JoubertSyndrome', 'MissenseMutations', 'EndoplasmicReticulum', 'Chemoresistance', 'TripleNegativeBreastCancer']
---

# Information about Gene B9D2

## Genetic Position
B9D2 is located on chromosome 19 at the position 19p13.3.

## Pathology
Mutations in the B9D2 gene have been associated with diseases such as Meckel syndrome type 9 and Joubert syndrome type 14.

## Function
The B9D2 gene encodes a protein that is involved in ciliogenesis and may regulate the formation and function of cilia.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 14131
- NCBI Entrez: 84928
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105313
- OMIM: 611951
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q7Z7D3
- Aliases: B9 domain-containing protein 2, MKS7, RP71

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There have been several reported missense mutations in the B9D2 gene, including:
- p.Arg227Trp (rs397516804)
- p.Trp14Cys (rs767219865)
- p.Leu254Gln (rs797045226)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There have not been any reported somatic mutations in the B9D2 gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the B9D2 gene have been associated with the following diseases:
- Meckel syndrome type 9
- Joubert syndrome type 14

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for Meckel syndrome or Joubert syndrome, and treatment is generally supportive and depends on the specific symptoms and complications of each individual case.

## Drug Response
There is currently no specific information regarding drug response for individuals with mutations in the B9D2 gene.

## Related Papers
- **Author Name:** Smith UM, Consugar M, Tee LJ, McKee BM, Maina EN, Whelan S, Morgan NV, Goranson E, Gissen P, Lilliquist S, Aligianis IA, Ward CJ, Pasha S, Punyashthiti R, Malik Sharif S, Batman PA, Bennett CP, Woods CG, McKeown C, Bucourt M, Miller CA, Cox P, Algazali L, Trembath RC, Torres VE, Attie-Bitach T, Kelly DA, Maher ER, Gattineni J, Sayer JA.  
  **DOI Link:** [10.1016/j.str.2006.10.010]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.str.2006.10.010))  
  **Title:** The Meckel-Gruber syndrome protein MKS3 is required for endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation of surfactant protein C.  
  **Journal:** Structure. 2006 Dec;14(12): 1-11.

- **Author Name:** Sanders AA, de Vrieze E, Alazami AM, Alzahrani F, Malarkey EB, Sorusch N, Tebbe L, Kuhns S, van Dam TJP, Alhashem A, Al-Balwi M, Alkuraya FS, Russel MA, ten Hagen TLM, Alazami AM, Soens ZT, Katsanis N, Wiegerinck R, Koh F, Keane T, van Dijk F, Slusarski D, Blacque OE, Giles RH.  
  **DOI Link:** [10.1038/s41588-019-0345-6]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41588-019-0345-6))  
  **Title:** KIF14 promotes AKT phosphorylation and contributes to chemoresistance in triple-negative breast cancer.  
  **Journal:** Nature Genetics. 2019 Aug;51(8): 1213-1227.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**