---
title: "SRD5A3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information on the Gene SRD5A3"
tags: ['SRD5A3', 'CDG1Q', 'CongenitalDisorder', 'Glycosylation', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'NeurologicalSymptoms']
---

## Information on the Gene SRD5A3

### Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function:

- **Genetic position:** SRD5A3 is located on chromosome 4q12 and consists of 16 exons.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in the SRD5A3 gene have been linked to a type of congenital disorder of glycosylation known as CDG type 1Q (CDG1Q).
- **Function:** The SRD5A3 gene encodes for an enzyme involved in protein glycosylation. It specifically catalyzes the conversion of polyprenol to dolichol, which is an essential step in the assembly of the lipid-linked oligosaccharide (LLO) precursor required for N-linked protein glycosylation.

### Gene ID and Aliases:

- **Gene ID:** SRD5A3
- **Aliases:** CDG1Q, SRD5AIII, and DKFZp686N13204.

### External IDs and Sites:

- **HGNC:** 30987
- **NCBI Entrez Gene:** 79644
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000138685
- **OMIM:** 612379
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q9H8X9

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:

No pathological mutations have been reported for the SRD5A3 gene in the [dbSNP]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/snp/) database.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

No somatic mutations have been reported for the SRD5A3 gene in the [dbSNP]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/snp/) database.

### Related Disease:

Mutations in the SRD5A3 gene have been associated with a type of congenital disorder of glycosylation called CDG type 1Q (CDG1Q). This disorder can cause developmental delay, seizures, and other neurological symptoms, as well as a range of other symptoms affecting various organs and systems.

### Treatment and Prognosis:

There is currently no cure for CDG1Q, but treatment is generally supportive and based on individual symptoms. This may include therapies such as physical therapy, speech therapy, and medication.

### Drug Response:

There is no specific information available regarding drug response related to mutations in the SRD5A3 gene.

### Related Papers:

- Freeke J. van der Meer et al. (2011). Clinical presentations of congenital disorders of glycosylation type Ia and Ib: a review of 169 cases. J Inherit Metab Dis., 34(3): 661-669. doi: 10.1007/s10545-011-9288-z
- Jaak Jaeken (2010). Congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG): It's (nearly) all in it! J Inherit Metab Dis., 33(2): 133-136. doi: 10.1007/s10545-010-9062-6
- Pontus Wasling et al. (2018). SRD5A3-CDG: Characterization, Expanding the Phenotype, and Identification of a Mutation in the Decaprenyl Diphosphate Synthase 2 (PDSS2) Gene. JIMD Reports, 41: 63-69. doi: 10.1007/8904_2018_87

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**