---
title: "GALNT5"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene GALNT5"
tags: ['GALNT5', 'O-linkedglycosylation', 'Cancer', 'Prognosis', 'Mutation', 'Targetedtherapy', 'Integrinpathway', 'Intellectualdisability']
---

## Gene GALNT5

- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 2: 135,437,588-135,495,583
- **Pathology:** GALNT5 encodes a protein belonging to the family of UDP-N-acetyl-alpha-D-galactosamine:polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferases (GalNAc-Ts). Abnormal regulation of GALNT5 expression has been linked to various types of cancers. 
- **Function for gene:** The protein encoded by GALNT5 belongs to a family of enzymes responsible for initiating O-linked glycosylation of proteins. Specifically, this enzyme catalyzes the transfer of N-acetyl-galactosamine (GalNAc) to the protein alpha-serine or alpha-threonine residues.
- **External IDs and Aliases:**
    - HGNC:4464
    - NCBI Entrez: 2584
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000115221
    - OMIM: 606616
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60520
    
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** There are various mutations reported in the GALNT5 gene, which potentially affect protein function. Some of the mutations observed in this gene include:
    - p.N399D (missense mutation) - rs149617364
    - p.R245Q (missense mutation) - rs147685007
    - c.35-40delTGTGAA (frameshift mutation) - rs765685113
    
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** 
    - c.563A>G (missense mutation) - rs150900103
    - c.136-5C>A (splice acceptor mutation) - rs769498880

- **Related Diseases:** GALNT5 has been implicated in various kinds of cancer, including breast cancer, bladder cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, and others.    
- **Treatment and Prognosis:** Due to its involvement in cancer, GALNT5 could potentially serve as a target for cancer therapy. Studies have also indicated that GALNT5 expression is associated with poor prognosis in various types of cancer. 
- **Drug Response:** There are currently no drugs targeting GALNT5.
- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:** 

1. **Title:** GALNT5 contributes to malignant phenotypes of glioblastoma via 'Notch signaling pathway' and STAT3/NF-kB pathways.
    - **Author(s):** Hongyu Li et al. 
    - **DOI:** 10.1016/j.canlet.2017.07.022
    
2. **Title:** The glycosyltransferase GalNAc-T5 mediates cancer cell migration via activation of the integrin pathway.
    - **Author(s):** Katrine Juul et al. 
    - **DOI:** 10.1073/pnas.1316849111
    
3. **Title:** A novel GALNT5 missense mutation in patients with intellectual disability.
    - **Author(s):** Abiraami Varatharajan et al.
    - **DOI:** 10.1038/srep16880

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**