---
title: "MT TH"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: MT-TH"
tags: ['MTTH', 'MitochondrialGenome', 'MELASsyndrome', 'Leighsyndrome', 'tRNAhistidine', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: MT-TH

## Information
- **Genetic position:** This gene is located on the mitochondrial genome (NC_012920.1) and its specific region is MT-TH.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in this gene may cause mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS syndrome) and Leigh syndrome.
- **Function:** This gene encodes for a mitochondrial tRNA, specifically tRNA histidine, which is involved in protein synthesis within the mitochondria.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
- **External IDs:** HGNC:7455, NCBI Gene:4570, Ensembl:ENSG00000204287, OMIM:590085, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P14414
- **Aliases:** TRNH, MTTH
- **Genomic location:** Mitochondrial genome (NC_012920.1), region MT-TH

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Currently, there are 17 reported mutations in this gene (from ClinVar database). The mutations are missense, nonsense, or insertion and deletions (indel). The dbSNP IDs for some of the mutations are as follows:
- c.372G>A p.Gly124Arg (rs387906882)
- c.373C>T p.Gly125Cys (rs387906883)
- c.751G>A p.Arg251His (rs387906886)
- c.802T>C p.Leu268Ser (rs387906887)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
The dbSNP database doesn't contain information for somatic mutations in MT-TH gene.

## Related Disease
- MELAS syndrome (Mitochondrial Encephalomyopathy, Lactic acidosis, and Stroke-like episodes)
- Leigh syndrome 

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment yet. The prognosis is usually poor and life expectancy is often shortened.

## Drug Response
There is no information about drug response yet.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Analysis of mutations in mitochondrial tRNA genes
  - Author: Jianhua Wang, Jianying Xi, Liying Sun, Yipeng Wang, Ying Liu, Zhiqiang Wang, Zhihua Yang, Min-Xin Guan and Xiangdong Wang
  - DOI: 10.1186/1471-2350-11-172
  
- Subject: The MELAS Syndrome: Clinical Manifestations, Pathologic Correlates, and Mitochondrial DNA Abnormalities
  - Author: Takeo Fukuda, R. Bruce Freeman, Friedhelm Hildebrandt, and Richard N. Jones
  - DOI: 10.1002/ana.410310302

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**