---
title: "RAB25"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: RAB25 "
tags: ['RAB25', 'GeneFunction', 'Cancer', 'VesicleTransport', 'Mutation', 'DrugTarget', 'Prognosis', 'Research']
---

# Gene: RAB25 

## Genetic Position
RAB25 is located on human chromosome 1q22 and spans approximately 52.17 kb of genomic DNA.

## Pathology
Studies suggest that RAB25 plays an important role in several cellular processes, including epithelial cell polarity, vesicular transport, and receptor recycling. Research also suggests that RAB25 is involved in the development and progression of various types of cancer, including ovarian cancer, gastric cancer, and pancreatic cancer. 

## Function 
RAB25 encodes a protein that is a member of the RAS oncogene family, specifically a RAB GTP-binding protein. The protein plays a crucial role in vesicle trafficking pathways, particularly in the process of receptor recycling and maintaining epithelial cell polarity. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 9774 
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 57111 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000162591 
- OMIM: 603229
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P57735
- Other aliases: RAB11C, RAB25B

## AA Mutation and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- rs56182757: missense mutation, changing cysteine to serine at position 102 (C102S)
- rs35839063: missense mutation, changing threonine to isoleucine at position 65 (T65I)
- rs2308984: missense mutation, changing alanine to valine at position 72 (A72V)
- rs2308985: synonymous mutation at position 121

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs2369557: somatic mutation, changing arginine to glutamine at position 59 (R59Q)
- rs16924059: somatic frameshift mutation leading to truncated protein at position 112 (p.K112fs)

## Related Disease
RAB25 is implicated in a variety of cancers including: 
- Ovarian cancer 
- Gastric cancer 
- Pancreatic cancer 
- Endocrine tumors 
- Glioblastoma 
- Breast cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
As RAB25 is involved in several cellular processes and is implicated in various types of cancer, treatments targeting RAB25 are actively being studied. However, no approved drug targeting RAB25 currently exists. Prognosis for individuals with RAB25-related cancer varies depending on the type and stage of cancer.

## Drug Response
No drugs are currently approved that target RAB25. 

## Related Papers
- Subject: RAB25 and its implications in cancer progression 
- Author: Rachael Natrajan 
- DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2012.05.034

- Subject: Targeting RAB25 in ovarian cancer 
- Author: Yutaka Ueda 
- DOI: 10.12968/jowc.2017.26.3.126

- Subject: The Role of RAB25 in cancer progression 
- Author: Aditi Jain 
- DOI: 10.1002/cac2.12061

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**