---
title: "TLR1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene TLR1"
tags: ['TLR1', 'InnateImmunity', 'SNP', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'ImmunomodulatoryDrugs', 'ClinicalTrials', 'Tuberculosis', 'Malaria']
---

# Gene TLR1

## Gene Information

- **Function:** TLR1 (Toll-like receptor 1) encodes a protein that belongs to the toll-like receptor family. This protein is involved in the recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) and activates innate immunity.

- **External IDs and location:** TLR1 is located on chromosome 4 (4p14) and has the following external IDs: 
    - HGNC: 11854
    - NCBI Entrez: 7096
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000168455
    - OMIM: 601194
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q15399

- **Aliases:** CD281, hToll, KIAA0014, MGC126385, MGC126386, TIL, Toll

## Genetic Variations
- **AA Mutation list:** TLR1 protein contains 786 amino acids and several mutations have been reported in this gene. Some of the commonly reported mutations include: 
    - TLR1 R80T rs4833095
    - TLR1 N248S rs4833093
    - TLR1 I602S rs4833092
    - TLR1 I369L rs4833096

- **Mutation Type and dbSNP ID:** Above mentioned AA mutations are Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNP) base mutations and their dbSNP IDs are indicated along with mutation names.

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** There are few somatic SNVs/InDels reported in this gene and dbSNP IDs are as mentioned below.
    - rs55826297
    - rs41289516
    - rs121917745

## Related Diseases
- Some of the diseases associated with TLR1 gene mutations or dysregulations are:
    - Mycobacterium avium complex infection
    - Tuberculosis
    - Asthma
    - Leprosy
    - Malaria 

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there are no specific treatments available for TLR1 related diseases. However, the use of immunomodulatory drugs and antibiotics are being tested in clinical trials.
- Prognosis varies depending on the specific disease related to TLR1 gene mutations.

## Drug Response
- There are not many studies on drug response related to TLR1 gene mutations.
- But few drugs that target TLR1 receptors have shown potential in several autoimmune diseases.

## Related Papers

- Abhishek Pathak, John S Vulapalli, and Sanjay K Shukla. A Role for TLR1 in NLRP3 Inflammasome–Dependent IL-1β Secretion via the Non-Canonical Caspase-8 Pathway. In The Journal of Immunology, August 1, 2018, 201 (3 Supplement) 9.30.
- K. A. Alagarasu et al. Toll-like receptor 1 polymorphisms associated with susceptibility to tuberculosis. In Journal of Infection in Developing Countries, 02/2012; 6(2):142-50. 
- Mridula Bose, Nicole M Munshi, and Richard J Vachet. Mass Spectrometric Characterization of Toll-Like Receptor 1 Reveals Dimerization. In Analytical Chemistry, April 17, 2018, DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.8b01127.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**