---
title: "FLNA"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene FLNA"
tags: ['FLNA', 'FilaminA', 'Cytoskeleton', 'PVNH', 'MissenseMutation', 'Anticonvulsants', 'NeuronalMigration', 'GeneticDisorder']
---

# Gene FLNA

## Information
- **Gene Symbol**: FLNA
- **Gene Name**: filamin A        
- **External IDs**: 
    - HGNC: HGNC:3748 
    - NCBI Entrez: 2316
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000196924
    - OMIM: 300017
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P21333
- **Aliases**: ABP-280, ABPX, FGA, FLN, FLN-A, FLN1, FLN-A1, PHA, OPD, OPD1
    
## Function
- The FLNA gene encodes a protein named filamin A, which is a cytoskeleton protein that participates in the organization and maintenance of actin filaments in the cell, maintaining cell shape, and facilitating cell migration. Also, it interacts with other cellular structures such as transmembrane receptors, signaling molecules, and ion channels, modulating their activity.

## Mutations
- **AA mutation list**: 
    - p.Glu152Asp
    - p.Arg159Cys
    - p.Ala176Val
    - p.Phe181Val
    - p.Leu197Pro
- **Mutation type**: Missense
- **dbSNP ID**: rs137853343, rs137853344, rs137853346, rs137853347, rs137853348

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- There are several somatic variants in the FLNA gene described in the COSMIC database, but none of them have a dbSNP ID.

## Related Disease
- Mutations in the FLNA gene were associated with a disorder called periventricular nodular heterotopia (PVNH), which is characterized by nodules of neurons that fail to migrate to their proper position in the cortex during development.

## Treatment and prognosis
- There is no cure for PVNH, and treatment is based on the symptoms presented by the patient. Usually, the treatment involves the use of anticonvulsants to control seizures, but sometimes surgery may be considered.
- The severity and prognosis of the disease depend on the extent and location of the nodules in the brain.

## Drug response
- There is no information available about drug response related to FLNA gene mutations.

## References
- Sheen VL, Jansen A, Chen MH, Parrini E, Morgan T, Ravenscroft R, Ganesh V, Underwood T, Wiley J, Leventer R, Vaid RR, Ruiz DE, Hutchins GM, Menasha J, Willner J, Geng Y, Gripp KW, Nicholson L, Berry-Kravis E, Bodell A, Apse K, Hill RS, Dubeau F, Andermann F, Barkovich AJ, Sherr EH (2005). "**Filamin A mutations cause periventricular heterotopia with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome**." Am J Hum Genet 76 (2): 254–64. doi:10.1086/427563. PMC 1196378. PMID 15625614. 
- "Filamin A – Gene". Genetics Home Reference. Retrieved 2021-02-16.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**