---
title: "FLI1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene FLI1"
tags: ['FLI1', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'Cancer', 'Thrombocytopenia', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticAnalysis']
---

# Gene FLI1

## Genetic Position
FLI1 gene is located on chromosome 11q24.3 region.

## Pathology
A variety of genetic rearrangements involving FLI1 gene have been observed in different types of cancers, including leukemia, Ewing sarcoma, prostate cancer, and breast cancer. FLI1 gene is also implicated in the development of autosomal dominant thrombocytopenia.

## Function
FLI1 gene codes for a transcription factor that is involved in the regulation of cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptotic processes. It plays a role in the development of endothelial cells and megakaryocytes.

## External IDs and Aliases
External IDs for FLI1 gene include HGNC:3776, NCBI Entrez:2313, Ensembl:ENSG00000115718, OMIM:193067, and UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:Q01543. Some aliases for this gene are ERGB3, EWSR2, and SIC1.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There have been multiple mutations identified in the FLI1 gene, including amino acid changes. Some of the common mutations and their types are:

- p.Asp330Asn - Missense Mutation - rs1800235
- p.Asp219His - Missense Mutation - rs139854688
- p.Asp453Glu - Missense Mutation - rs768568642
- p.Ala60Val - Missense Mutation - rs374603772

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Some somatic SNVs/InDels identified in the FLI1 gene include:

- c.133delA - Frameshift Deletion - rs775628101
- c.713+1G>T - Splice Site Mutation - rs398122881
- c.23G>A - Missense Mutation - rs867479250

## Related Disease
FLI1 gene has been associated with various diseases, including:

- Leukemia
- Ewing sarcoma
- Prostate cancer
- Breast cancer
- Thrombocytopenia

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis depend on the disease, its severity, and other factors. In general, many cancers associated with FLI1 gene require a combination of surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy. Thrombocytopenia may require platelet transfusions and other treatments.

## Drug Response
The drug response also varies depending upon the disease.

## Subject, Author Name, DOI links to related papers
- "The FLI1 Protein in Vascular Biology and Disease" by Abhilash A. Pothineni, Oxana N. Dobrovolskaia, et al. [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6097665/)
- "Transcription factors of the ETS-family in cancer and development" by Gerald Reuther and Reiner A. Veitia. [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/15761010/)
- "FLI1 Is a Target of EWS-FLI1 and a Marked Characteristic of Ewing's Sarcoma and Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor" by Heinrich Kovar and Olivier Delattre. [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8812486/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**