---
title: "CASC16"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Name: CASC16"
tags: ['CASC16', 'GeneticRiskFactor', 'Cancer', 'CellProliferation', 'Differentiation', 'Apoptosis', 'TumorSuppressor', 'LongNonCodingRNA']
---

# Gene Name: CASC16
---

### Information
- **Genetic Position**: Chromosome 8 (8q21.11)
- **Pathology**: There is no known direct link between CASC16 and any disease or syndrome, but it is often considered a genetic risk factor for certain types of cancer such as colorectal, breast, and ovarian cancers.
- **Function**: CASC16 gene plays a role in regulating cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis in malignant tissues and cancer cells.

### Gene Related Information:  
- **External IDs**: HGNC: 34296, NCBI Entrez: 100129098, Ensembl: ENSG00000231485, OMIM: 614947, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: N/A
- **Aliases**: CASC16, LOC100129098

### Variation Information:
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type**: There is no known AA mutation in CASC16.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: None reported so far.

### Related Disease: 
- CASC16 is often considered a genetic risk factor for certain types of cancer such as colorectal, breast, and ovarian cancers, but it is not a direct cause of these diseases.

### Treatment and Prognosis:
- There is no specific treatment or prognosis information available for CASC16.
- Further research is needed to determine the potential impact of CASC16 on cancer treatment, prognosis, and other medical conditions.

### Drug Response:
- There is no information available on drug response related to CASC16.

### Related Research:
- Liu et al., (2021) "*Long non-coding RNA CASC16 is a tumour suppressor gene that inactivates oncogene HMGA2 and inhibits cancer stem cell characteristics in breast cancer*." [DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.16075]
- Li et al., (2019) "*Long non-coding RNA CASC16 promotes the progression of gastric cancer via sponging miR-15b and miR-16-1*." [DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2019.4249]
- Zou et al., (2019) "*Upregulation of long non-coding RNA CASC16 predicts a poor prognosis and promotes proliferation and migration in osteosarcoma*." [DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2019.116795]

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**