---
title: "TBXAS1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene TBXAS1"
tags: ['TBXAS1', 'ThromboxaneASynthase', 'CardiovascularDisease', 'Hypertension', 'IschemicStroke', 'AntiplateletAgents', 'Clopidogrel', 'GeneticVariants']
---

## Gene TBXAS1

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 7
- Location: 7q34-qter

### Pathology
TBXAS1 (Thromboxane A Synthase 1) gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of prostaglandin H2 to thromboxane A2, which mediates vasoconstriction and promotes platelet aggregation. Dysfunction of this gene has been associated with various diseases including hypertension, cardiovascular disease, asthma, and ischemic stroke.

### Function
The TBXAS1 gene is responsible for encoding an enzyme called thromboxane A synthase, which helps produce thromboxane A2, a potent vasoconstrictor and platelet activator.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 11767
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 6916
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000106258
- OMIM ID: 274180
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q16647
- Aliases: PTGHS2, TXAS

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are various SNPs present in the TBXAS1 gene, some of which are mentioned below:
- L8P (rs61733391)
- L43Q (rs2276272)
- S44N (rs869312954)
- R68W (rs28931575)
- R73Q (rs759862455)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are few somatic SNVs/InDels that have been reported in TBXAS1, some of which are mentioned below:
- c.319A>G (rs748799799)
- c.677C>T (rs114815969)
- c.968G>A (rs778188995)

### Related Disease
Dysfunction of TBXAS1 has been associated with the following diseases:
- Hypertension
- Cardiovascular disease
- Asthma
- Ischemic stroke

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no known cure for TBXAS1 gene-associated diseases. Medications such as aspirin or other antiplatelet agents may help prevent thrombosis in patients with cardiovascular disease or ischemic stroke. In addition, lifestyle changes such as adopting a healthy diet and regular exercise may help manage hypertension.

### Drug Response
Clopidogrel, a commonly used antiplatelet agent, may exhibit variable responses in patients with TBXAS1 gene variants. Studies have suggested that patients with a particular SNP (rs7675300) in the TBXAS1 gene may be less responsive to clopidogrel treatment.

### Related Papers
- Author: Shimizu M, et al.
  - doi: 10.1161/01.HYP.34.1.26
  - title: "Association between essential hypertension and the thromboxane A synthase gene"
  - journal: Hypertension
- Author: Li X, et al.
  - doi: 10.1186/s12872-021-01861-5
  - title: "Association of thromboxane A2 synthase gene polymorphisms with cardiovascular disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis"
  - journal: BMC Cardiovascular Disorders

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**