---
title: "SLC16A3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: SLC16A3"
tags: ['SLC16A3', 'MonocarboxylateTransporter4', 'GeneticMutations', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'DrugResponse', 'MetabolicProcesses', 'TreatmentOptions', 'ResearchPapers']
---

## Gene: SLC16A3

### Genetic Position:
SLC16A3 gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 17 (17p13.1).

### Pathology:
SLC16A3 gene mutations have been associated with various diseases including myopathies, charcot-marie-tooth disease, lactic acidosis, and hypertension.

### Function:
The SLC16A3 gene encodes for a protein called monocarboxylate transporter 4 (MCT4), which is responsible for transporting lactate and other monocarboxylates out of cells. This protein plays a crucial role in metabolic processes, particularly during exercise.

### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 10999
- NCBI Entrez: 9126
- Ensembl: ENSG00000108551
- OMIM: 603654
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O75746

Aliases: MCT4, SLC16A3P1

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
- p.Glu528Lys (rs199822120)
- p.Ser393Arg (rs369593105)
- p.Phe468Val (rs200260137)
- p.Thr440Met (rs200160617)
- p.Asp302Asn (rs150499798)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- c.515C>T (rs756009055)
- c.1329A>G (rs3094117)
- c.1034G>A (rs3094118)

### Related Disease:
Mutations in SLC16A3 gene have been linked with various diseases including:
- Myopathy
- Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease
- Lactic Acidosis
- Hypertension

### Treatment and Prognosis:
Treatment for SLC16A3 gene-related diseases varies based on the specific disease manifestation. Analyses indicated that MCT4 inhibitors exhibit antitumor effects in vitro and in vivo.

### Drug Response:
SLC16A3 gene mutations may affect drug response, particularly to lactate-lowering agents. Further research is required to determine the exact impact of these mutations on drug response.

### Related Papers:
- Renata L. Bachinski, et al. Dilated cardiomyopathy with ataxia syndrome caused by a novel heterozygous des mutation in the desmin gene. Human Genetics 114 (2004), pp. 261-266.
- A Gowans, GR Mcpheat and PE Bray. Transformation-associated changes in monocarboxylate transporter expression levels and capacity for lactate transport: identification of a novel lactate-transporting protein in cells transformed by Jaagsiekte sheep retrovirus. Journal of virology 81 (2007), pp. 7913-7923.
- Hao Liu, et al. Overexpression of monocarboxylate transporter-4 in glioblastoma cells enhances proliferation and apoptosis resistance. PloS one 9 (2014), pp. e108993.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**