---
title: "DOK2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene DOK2"
tags: ['DOK2', 'DockingProtein', 'TCellReceptor', 'BCellAcuteLymphoblasticLeukemia', 'PrognosticMarker', 'TargetedTherapy', 'HematologicalMalignancies', 'IntracellularSignaling']
---

# Information on Gene DOK2

### Gene Information:
- Gene Name: DOK2 (Docking protein 2) 
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 8q21.3 
- Alias: P56DOK2, DOK-2, p56Dok-2 

### Gene Function:
- DOK2 is a member of the DOK family of cytoplasmic proteins.
- It plays a critical role in the intracellular signaling in response to various cytokines and growth factors by interacting with a number of proteins.
- It acts as an adapter protein, relaying signals from cell surface receptors to downstream signaling molecules. 
- The DOK2 gene is known to be involved in T-cell receptor signaling and is critical for T-cell development and activation.

### External IDs:
- HGNC: 2964
- NCBI Entrez: 9046
- Ensembl: ENSG00000120685
- OMIM: 603151
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60496

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- No AA Mutations are reported on UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot for DOK2.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- No Somatic SNVs/Indels with dbSNP ID are reported on NCBI for DOK2.

### Related Disease:
- DOK2 mutations are associated with hematological malignancies, especially B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). DOK2 gene deletion may be considered as a potential marker for poor prognosis in B-ALL.

### Treatment and Prognosis:
- DOK2 is still under investigation as a potential target for cancer therapy.
- Further study is necessary to understand the prognostic value of DOK2 gene deletion in B-ALL patients.

### Drug Response:
- The response of B-ALL patients with DOK2 deletion or mutations toward targeted therapies are not defined yet.

### Related Papers:
- Subject: DOK2 deletion as a poor prognostic marker in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
- Author: Safavi S, Paulsson K, Near R, et al.
- DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/gcc.22225)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**