---
title: "ATXN2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# ATXN2 gene"
tags: ['ATXN2', 'NeurodegenerativeDiseases', 'SCA2', 'ALS', 'RNARegulation', 'ProteinTranslation', 'TrinucleotideRepeatExpansion', 'DrugResponse']
---

# ATXN2 gene

## Genetic position, pathology, and function
- **Genetic position:** Chromosome 12 (12q24.12)
- **Pathology:** ATXN2 gene mutations have been associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
- **Function:** The ATXN2 gene encodes for Ataxin-2 protein, which is involved in RNA regulation and protein translation. Ataxin-2 is also involved in cytoplasmic stress granule formation and the regulation of apoptosis.

## Gene Information
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 1081
    - NCBI Entrez: 6311
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000163249 
    - OMIM: 601517
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q99700
- **Aliases:** SCA2, ATX2

## Mutations and Variations
- **AA Mutation List:** Some of the amino acid changes associated with ATXN2 gene mutations are:
    - CAG trinucleotide repeat expansion: Polyglutamine (polyQ) tract expansion is associated with SCA2 and other neurodegenerative diseases.
    - Alanine (A) to Valine (V) substitution at position 804 (A804V): This mutation has been found in ALS patients.
- **Mutation type:** 
    - Trinucleotide repeat expansion 
    - Missense mutation 
- **dbSNP ID:**
    - rs113993987 (A804V)

## Somatic Variations
- **dbSNP ID:**
    - rs140204482 (somatic mutation in lung adenocarcinoma)

## Related Diseases
- Spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2)
- Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no cure for SCA2 or ALS. Treatment mainly focuses on alleviating symptoms.
- The prognoses for SCA2 and ALS varies depending on the individual case.

## Drug Response
- There are no drugs specifically designed for treating SCA2 or ALS. However, some medications such as riluzole and edaravone can help slow down the progression of ALS.

## Related Papers
- García-Murias M, et al. (2018) [Spinocerebellar ataxia type 2: clinicogenetic aspects, mechanistic insights, and management approaches](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11892-018-0979-6))
- Strom AL, et al. (2016) [Ataxin-2: a versatile post-transcriptional regulator and its implication in neural function](https://doi.org/10.1098/rsob.160070))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**