---
title: "ACAD8"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene ACAD8"
tags: ['ACAD8', 'IBDdeficiency', 'metabolicdisorder', 'valinemetabolism', 'nonsensemutation', 'missensemutation', 'lowproteindiet', 'carnitine']
---

## Information about Gene ACAD8

### Gene location, pathology, and function

- **Genetic position:** The ACAD8 gene is located on chromosome 11q25 and spans approximately 6.5 kb of genomic DNA.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in the ACAD8 gene are associated with isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase (IBD) deficiency. IBD is a rare autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that impairs the body's ability to break down the amino acid valine.
- **Function:** The ACAD8 gene encodes for isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase, which is an enzyme that catalyzes the breakdown of isobutyryl-CoA into methylmalonyl-CoA during the metabolism of valine. 

### Gene IDs and External sites

- **Gene ID:**  ACAD8
- **Genomic location:** Chromosome 11q25
- **Aliases:** IBD, IBDH
- **External sites:** HGNC: HGNC:19119, NCBI Entrez: 27034, Ensembl: ENSG00000182231, OMIM: 611283, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N158

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

- c.961C>A (p.Ser321Ter) - nonsense mutation; rs114291383
- c.823C>T (p.Arg275Ter) - nonsense mutation; rs121907980
- c.470G>A (p.Arg157His) - missense mutation; rs28936415
- c.116G>A (p.Gly39Glu) - missense mutation; rs76837230

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels for the ACAD8 gene.

### Related Disease

Mutations in the ACAD8 gene are associated with isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase (IBD) deficiency. IBD is a rare autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that impairs the body's ability to break down the amino acid valine. Symptoms of IBD can include muscle weakness, lethargy, vomiting, and hypoglycemia.

### Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment for IBD often involves a low-protein diet, and supplementation with carnitine and/or riboflavin. Prognosis for individuals with IBD can be variable, with some individuals experiencing severe neurological symptoms, and others remaining asymptomatic.

### Drug response

There are currently no known drug therapies designed specifically for IBD. However, treatment with carnitine and riboflavin may help to reduce symptoms associated with IBD.

### References

- Andresen BS, Dobrowolski SF, O'Reilly L, Wanders RJ, Mitchell GA, Olpin SE. Molecular genetics of mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation disorders. Ann Med. 2004;36(7):442-51. doi: 10.1080/07853890410018895
- Ensenauer R, Vockley J. Genetic Metabolic Disorders. In: Goldsmith LA, Katz SI, Gilchrest BA, Paller AS, Leffell DJ, Wolff K., eds. Fitzpatrick's Dermatology in General Medicine, Vol 2. 8th ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill; 2012:2340-2350.
- Stryer L. Biochemistry. 7th ed. New York: W.H. Freeman and Company; 2013.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**