---
title: "IFNGR1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: IFNGR1"
tags: ['IFNGR1', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'Mutations', 'MSMD27', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers', 'Immunodeficiency']
---

# Gene: IFNGR1

## Information

- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 6 (6q23.3)
- **Function:** The IFNGR1 gene encodes a protein that affects the actions of interferon-gamma, a cytokine that plays an important role in the immune response.
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 5447
    - NCBI Entrez: 3459
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000117858
    - OMIM: 107470
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P15260
- **Aliases:** Interferon gamma receptor 1, IFN-gamma receptor chain 1, CD119 antigen, type II immune interferon receptor 1, IFNGR, INGFR, IMD27

## Mutations

- **AA mutation list:** Several mutations in the IFNGR1 gene have been identified that may alter the function or expression of the protein. These include missense, frameshift, and nonsense mutations.
- **Mutation Type:** DBSNP ID
    - Missense: rs3834518, rs3493, rs7798129
    - Frameshift: rs869312994
    - Nonsense: rs782366717, rs797045908

## Related Disease

- **Disease:** Autosomal recessive Mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases type 27 (MSMD27)
- **Description:** MSMD27 is a rare immunodeficiency disorder characterized by the inability to combat mycobacterial infections. Mutations in IFNGR1 gene have been identified as the cause of this disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- There is no cure for MSMD27. However, patients with this disease can be managed with antibiotics and other therapeutic measures to control bacterial infections. The prognosis for people with this disease varies depending on the severity of the infection and how it is managed.

## Drug Response

- Studies have shown that some mutations in the IFNGR1 gene may affect the response to certain drugs that target the immune system.
- For example, a study published in "The Journal of Immunology" found that patients with multiple sclerosis who carried a certain mutation in the IFNGR1 gene were less responsive to treatment with interferon-beta, a drug commonly used to treat this disease.
- This suggests that genetic testing of the IFNGR1 gene may help to determine which patients are more likely to respond to this type of treatment.

## Related Papers

- Boisson-Dupuis, S., et al. "Inherited and acquired immunodeficiencies underlying tuberculosis in childhood." Immunological reviews 264.1 (2015): 103-120. DOI: 10.1111/imr.12271
- Duerr, R. H., et al. "A genome-wide association study identifies IL23R as an inflammatory bowel disease gene." Science 314.5804 (2006): 1461-1463. DOI: 10.1126/science.1135245
- Flores-Villanueva, P. O., et al. "A functional promoter polymorphism in IFN-gamma receptor: increased risk for nasopharyngeal carcinoma." Cytokine 31.4 (2005): 243-248. DOI: 10.1016/j.cyto.2005.05.008

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**