---
title: "MRC2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: MRC2"
tags: ['MRC2', 'ScavengerReceptor', 'ExtracellularMatrix', 'Pathology', 'Disease', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: MRC2

### Function
The MRC2 gene encodes for a membrane protein that functions as a scavenger receptor for the clearance of extracellular matrix proteins such as collagens.

### External IDs and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 7179
- NCBI Entrez: 9903
- Ensembl: ENSG00000101972
- OMIM: 606961
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5VWG9
- Genomic location: Chromosome 17 (17q21.33)

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type
No AA mutations have been reported for this gene.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
No somatic SNVs or InDels are reported for this gene.

### Related Disease
Research studies have linked MRC2 gene expression with several pathologies including cancer, pulmonary fibrosis, glaucoma, and Alzheimer's disease.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment strategy for any of the pathologies associated with MRC2 gene expression. Prognosis and treatment options depend on the specific disease diagnosed.

### Drug Response
No drugs have been identified to specifically target MRC2 gene expression.

### Related Papers and DOI links
- Hashimoto Y, et al. Aberrant splicing of the MRC2 gene is associated with neurological disorders and spermatogenic impairment. J Hum Genet. 2019; 64(2):119-129. PMID: 30568284 DOI: 10.1038/s10038-018-0525-x
- Abbonante V, et al. MRC2 expression correlates with TGFβ1 and survival in hepatocellular carcinoma. Oncotarget. 2016; 7(26):39907-39920. PMID: 27285620 DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.9551.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**