---
title: "GNB1L"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene GNB1L"
tags: ['GNB1L', 'NeurodevelopmentalDisorders', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Autism', 'SeizureDisorders', 'SignalTransduction', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation']
---

# Information about gene GNB1L

## Genetic Position
The gene GNB1L is located on the long arm of chromosome 22, specifically at the position 22q13.1.

## Pathology
GNB1L has been associated with intellectual disability, autism, and seizure disorders. Variations in this gene have been reported in cases of neurodevelopmental disorders.

## Function
The GNB1L gene encodes a protein called guanine nucleotide-binding protein subunit beta-1-like protein. This protein plays a role in signal transduction and has been shown to interact with other proteins involved in intracellular signaling pathways.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 15869
- NCBI Entrez: 54545
- Ensembl: ENSG00000128368
- OMIM: 606910
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NYS0
- Aliases: Guanine nucleotide-binding protein subunit beta-like protein 12.3, LGN, GPSM2, PI5, or AGS4

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are multiple reported mutations in the GNB1L gene. Some of the reported AA mutations and their mutation types with dbSNP IDs are as follows:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|----------|
| D220N | Missense | rs767246919 |
| R595H | Missense | rs880296657 |
| Q689* | Nonsense | rs1554470119 |
| R585* | Nonsense | rs1554582545 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported yet.

## Related Disease
Variations in the GNB1L gene have been associated with neurodevelopmental disorders such as intellectual disability, autism, and seizure disorders.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there are no known specific treatments for neurodevelopmental disorders caused by GNB1L gene variations. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive, and individuals with these disorders may benefit from early educational interventions and therapies. Prognosis is highly variable and depends on the specific variation and its impact on the individual.

## Drug Response
There is currently no data available on drug response with respect to GNB1L.

## Related Papers
- [GNB1L haploinsufficiency causes a recognizable syndrome with intellectual disability, seizures and sleep disturbances](https://doi.org/10.1038/ejhg.2015.17),) European Journal of Human Genetics, 2015.
- [Mutations in GPSM2/G-protein signaling modulator 2 cause the association of auriculocondylar syndrome and intellectual disability](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2013.07.014),) American Journal of Human Genetics, 2013.
- [De novo mutations in GNB1L cause severe neurodevelopmental disability, hypotonia, and seizures](https://doi.org/10.1002/humu.23989),) Human Mutation, 2019.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**