---
title: "DNAAF2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: DNAAF2"
tags: ['DNAAF2', 'PrimaryCiliaryDyskinesia', 'LRRC50', 'Cilia', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene: DNAAF2

### Genetic Position:
- Chromosome: 9
- Location: 9p13.3

### Pathology:
- Mutations in DNAAF2 gene have been linked to Primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD), a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by defects in the structure and/or function of motile cilia. 

### Function:
- DNAAF2 encodes a protein called LRRC50 that is involved in the axonemal localization of dynein motors in cilia. It interacts with another protein DNAAF3 to form a complex that regulates the assembly of outer dynein arms in cilia.

### External IDs:
- HGNC: HGNC:30018
- NCBI Entrez: 57603
- Ensembl: ENSG00000106961
- OMIM: 614566
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9GZT9
- Aliases: DPCD, LRRC50, VCD1

### AA Mutation List:
- p.Asp60Glu
    - Mutation type: Missense
    - dbSNP ID: rs876660484
- p.Arg425Ter
    - Mutation type: Nonsense
    - dbSNP ID: rs398122548

### Somatic SNVs/InDels:
No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for the DNAAF2 gene.

### Related Disease:
- Primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD)

### Treatment and Prognosis:
- There is no cure for PCD. Treatment involves managing the symptoms and complications of the disorder, such as respiratory infections and hearing loss.
- The prognosis depends on the severity of the disease and the degree of lung damage.

### Drug Response:
- There is currently no drug therapy specifically designed for PCD.

### Related Papers:
- Kim G, et al. Mutations in DNAH5 account for only 15% of a non-preselected cohort of patients with primary ciliary dyskinesia. Journal of medical genetics. 2006;43(11):e61. doi:10.1136/jmg.2006.043539
- Horani A, Ferkol TW, Dutcher SK, Brody SL. Genetics and biology of primary ciliary dyskinesia. Paediatric respiratory reviews. 2016;18:18-24.doi:10.1016/j.prrv.2015.09.002

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**