---
title: "GH1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## GH1 Gene Information"
tags: ['GH1gene', 'growthhormone', 'geneticdisorders', 'treatment', 'prognosis', 'drugresponse', 'missensemutation', 'SNVs']
---

## GH1 Gene Information

### Genetic Position

The GH1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 17 (17q22-q24).


### Pathology

Mutations in the GH1 gene are associated with various disorders of growth hormone deficiency, including isolated growth hormone deficiency (IGHD), combined pituitary hormone deficiency (CPHD), and partial growth hormone deficiency (PGHD).


### Function

The GH1 gene encodes for the growth hormone, a protein that plays a crucial role in bone growth and overall body composition. The growth hormone also has metabolic effects, influencing the way the body processes carbohydrates and fat.


### External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 4264
- NCBI Entrez: 2688
- Ensembl: ENSG00000198270
- OMIM: 139250
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P01241
- Aliases: GH, hGH-N


### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- p.Ser35Leu, missense, dbSNP:rs201964729
- p.Ala68Thr, missense, dbSNP:rs200612759
- p.Asn123Ser, missense, dbSNP:rs200468168
- p.Arg77Cys, missense, dbSNP:rs121909644


### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- rs74315492, SNV
- rs730881728, SNV
- rs75184160, InDel


### Related Disease

- Isolated growth hormone deficiency
- Combined pituitary hormone deficiency
- Partial growth hormone deficiency


### Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment for growth hormone deficiency generally involves the use of daily injections of growth hormone. With appropriate treatment, individuals with growth hormone deficiency can often achieve a normal height and improve metabolic function.

The prognosis for growth hormone deficiency depends on the underlying cause and individual response to treatment.


### Drug Response

There is variability in response to growth hormone treatment, with a small percentage of individuals developing antibodies to the treatment. Other factors, including the underlying cause of the growth hormone deficiency and individual health status, can influence drug response.


### Related Papers

- Author: Espiner EA, 1986. DOI: 10.1079/BJN19860057
- Author: Kim KR, 2011. DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-200X.2010.03313.x
- Author: Grimberg A, 2006. DOI: 10.1210/jc.2005-0284

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**