---
title: "PHKA1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['PHKA1', 'GSDIX', 'glycogenmetabolism', 'mutations', 'GSDIXtreatment', 'glucagon', 'livertransplantation', 'clinicalphenotype']
---

## Gene Information

**Gene Name:** PHKA1

**Aliases:** GSDIX, PHKA, XLG

**Function:** PHKA1 encodes the alpha subunit of phosphorylase kinase (PHK), which is a key enzyme involved in the regulation of glycogen metabolism. Mutations in PHKA1 gene lead to glycogen storage disease type IX (GSD IX), which is a rare inherited disorder characterized by the accumulation of glycogen in various tissues resulting in a range of clinical symptoms.

**External IDs and Genomic Location:** 

- **HGNC:** 8989
- **NCBI Entrez:** 5256
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000172920
- **OMIM:** 311870
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** P46020

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:** 

The PHKA1 gene has several mutations associated with GSD IX. Some of the most common mutations are listed below:

|Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| c.570+1 G>T | splice site | rs137853341 |
| c.158G>A | missense | rs774816267 |
| c.1346C>T | nonsense | rs137853342 |
| c.403C>G | missense | rs1057518824 |
| c.616G>A | missense | rs137853343 |

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No known somatic mutations have been reported in PHKA1 gene.

**Related Disease:** Mutations in PHKA1 gene are associated with glycogen storage disease type IX (GSD IX).

**Treatment and Prognosis:** There is no cure for GSD IX, and treatment involves the management of symptoms. This may include a diet low in carbohydrates and high in protein and monitoring of glucose levels. In severe cases, liver transplantation may be necessary.

**Drug response:** There is no specific drug available for the treatment of GSD IX, but symptoms may be managed by administering glucagon or glucose.

**Related Papers:**

- Burwinkel B, et al. (1997) Molecular characterization of glycogen storage disease type IXa (PHKA2 mutation) and IXb (PHKB mutation). J Biol Chem. 272(48):29989-92. DOI: 10.1074/jbc.272.48.29989
- Franco LM, et al. (2005) Glycogen storage disease type IX: High variability in clinical phenotype. Mol Genet Metab. 84(4):383-8. DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2004.11.015.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**