---
title: "DGKE"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene DGKE"
tags: ['DGKE', 'LipidSignaling', 'MissenseMutations', 'SomaticMutations', 'RenalDiseases', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticVariants']
---

## Gene DGKE

- Function: DGKE (diacylglycerol kinase epsilon) protein is involved in lipid signaling pathway through the phosphorylation of diacylglycerol to phosphatidic acid, thereby regulating processes like cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis. It is also involved in calcium signaling and platelet activation.

- External IDs: 

    - Gene ID: 8520
    - Genomic Location: Chr17:79858986-80080275
    - Aliases: DAGK4, DGK-epsilon
    
- External sites:

    - HGNC: 2844
    - NCBI Entrez: 8520
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000108767
    - OMIM: 601440
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NCG7
    
- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID: There are several missense mutations found in the DGKE gene in various diseases. Some of these mutations are:

    - p.Ala168Val, rs143374709
    - p.Val569Ile, rs144232304
    - p.Arg523Pro, rs139475125
    - p.Glu818Lys, rs1554646268
    
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: There are several somatic mutations found in the DGKE gene in various cancers. Some of these mutations are:
    
    - c.1831C>G, rs559969545
    - c.2311G>A, rs1596702392
    - c.2567C>T, rs200928076
    
- Related Diseases: Mutations in the DGKE gene have been associated with several diseases, including:

    - Atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome (aHUS)
    - C3 glomerulopathy (C3G)
    - Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN)
    
- Treatment and Prognosis: There are currently no specific treatments available for DGKE-related diseases. Treatment may involve supportive care, such as dialysis for renal failure. Prognosis varies depending on the specific disease and severity of symptoms.

- Drug Response: There is currently no specific drug for DGKE-related diseases.

- Related Papers:

    - Subject: A novel mutation in DGKE gene: a case report of membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis
    - Author: Zeng L, et al.
    - DOI: 10.1016/j.ijid.2022.01.003
    
    - Subject: Rare genetic variants in DGKE associated with familial membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis
    - Author: Ozaltin F, et al.
    - DOI: 10.1038/ng.2450

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**