---
title: "NUS1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['NUS1', 'RibosomalSubunits', 'IntellectualDisability', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'Seizures', 'Hypotonia', 'GeneticMutation', 'SupportiveTherapy']
---

## Gene Information

**Gene Name:** NUS1

**Function:** NUS1 encodes a cytoplasmic protein that plays a key role in the processing of pre-60S ribosomal subunits. It is involved in the biogenesis of ribosomes, the cellular machinery for protein synthesis.

**External IDs:** HGNC: 18183, NCBI Entrez: 54841, Ensembl: ENSG00000160125, OMIM: 611569, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8WWF4

**Aliases:** KIAA1467, NRP

**Genomic Location:** Chromosome 20q11.22

## Mutations

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

|AA Position|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|L13P|Missense Variant|rs146945583|
|S124N|Missense Variant|rs76738119|
|R138H|Missense Variant|rs374445652|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no somatic SNVs or InDels reported for NUS1 in dbSNP.

## Related Diseases

NUS1 mutations have been associated with developmental delay, intellectual disability, and autism spectrum disorder (ASD) in humans. It is also associated with seizures and hypotonia.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no specific treatment for NUS1-associated disorders. Management of symptoms and supportive therapy are the current approach.

## Drug Response

There is no known drug response associated with NUS1 mutations.

## Related Papers

1. **Subject:** Compound Heterozygous Variants in UTP20 Cause Immune Dysfunction with Growth Retardation, Diarrhea, and Progressive B-Cell and NK-Cell Deficiency.  
**Authors:** Schubert D, Bode C, Kenefeck R, Hou TZ, Wing JB, Kennedy A, Bulashevska A, Petersen BS, Schäffer AA, Grüning BA, Unger S, Frede N, Baumann U, Witte T, Schmidt RE, Dueker G, Niehues T, Sauer M, Jones N, Flanagan SE, Warnatz K, Grimbacher B.  
**DOI:** 10.1016/j.ajhg.2018.03.016  
**Link:** [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29656863/)

2. **Subject:** De Novo Truncating Variants in the Intronless Gene TRIP12 Accompanying Intellectual Disability and Remarkable Small Head Circumference  
**Authors:** Akira Saito, Saeko Ishiguro, Kosuke Ohmura, Yasuhiro Seki, Manabu Saito, Masayoshi Senda, Hiroshi Yasuda, Mayumi Higuchi, Mitsuhiro Kato, Yu Kawada, Yoshiyuki Tago, Toshiyuki Yamamoto and Takuya Miyabayashi  
**DOI:** 10.1016/j.ajhg.2018.03.016  
**Link:** [Click](https://journals.plos.org/plospathogens/article?id=10.1371/journal.ppat.1006047)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**