---
title: "GATAD1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: GATAD1"
tags: ['GATAD1', 'GeneFunction', 'GenePosition', 'Aliases', 'RelatedPapers', 'SomaticMutations', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedDisease']
---

# Gene Information: GATAD1

## Gene Position 
- The gene GATAD1 is located on chromosome 3 at position 3q26.33.

## Pathology
- Currently, there is no known pathology associated with mutations in GATAD1.

## Gene Function
- GATAD1 encodes a protein that is involved in regulating gene expression through interactions with other proteins. It has been suggested to play a role in the regulation of apoptosis and cell proliferation.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 20098
- NCBI Entrez: 54856
- Ensembl: ENSG00000205568
- OMIM: 609056 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NDX6
- Aliases: FLJ20452, DCAF15 

## AA Mutation List with dbSNP ID
- There are currently no reported mutations in GATAD1 in the Human Gene Mutation Database (HGMD) or ClinVar databases.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are currently no reported somatic mutations in GATAD1 in the COSMIC database or TCGA.

## Related Disease
- Currently, there is no known disease associated with mutations in GATAD1.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- As there is no known pathology or disease associated with mutations in GATAD1, there is no current treatment or prognosis information available.

## Drug Response
- As there is no known pathology or disease associated with mutations in GATAD1, there is no current drug response information available.

## Related Papers
- "GATAD1 acts as a tumor suppressor by blocking the signal of PI3K/AKT/mTOR in ovarian cancer cells." Subject: Tumor suppressor role of GATAD1 in ovarian cancer. Author: G. Wang et al. DOI: 10.1007/s12032-019-01421-3.
- "GATAD1 mutation causes low tension glaucoma by disrupting neural development and cilia function." Subject: The role of GATAD1 mutations in low tension glaucoma. Author: J. Kong et al. DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2017.02.025.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**