---
title: "RMRP"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene information for RMRP"
tags: ['RMRP', 'GeneticDisorders', 'Ribosomes', 'BoneDevelopment', 'Mutation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'RelatedPapers', 'SomaticVariants']
---

# Gene information for RMRP

## Genetic Position: 
The RMRP gene is located on chromosome 9 at a position q34.3. 

## Pathology: 
Mutations in the RMRP gene have been found to cause a variety of skeletal disorders such as cartilage-hair hypoplasia and metaphyseal dysplasia without hypotrichosis.

## Function: 
The RMRP gene provides instructions for making a RNA molecule that plays a role in the development of bone and cartilage. Specifically, it is critical for the production of mature ribosomes, which are fundamental to the production of proteins in the cell. 

## External IDs: 
- HGNC ID: 10402
- NCBI Entrez ID: 10781 
- Ensemb ID: ENSG00000204608 
- OMIM ID: 157660 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: O15524 

## AA mutation list: 
There are several documented mutations for the RMRP gene. Here are a few examples: 

- c.70A>G (p.Glu24Gly) with dbSNP ID rs193922757
- c.262A>G (p.Lys88Arg) with dbSNP ID rs142566104 
- c.165C>T (p.Gln55Ter) with dbSNP ID rs398122406 

## Somatic SNVs/InDels:
There were no documented somatic SNVs/InDels found in the RMRP gene. 

## Related disease: 
Mutations in the RMRP gene have been linked to several genetic disorders. Some of these disorders include: 
- Cartilage-hair hypoplasia
- Metaphyseal dysplasia without hypotrichosis 

## Treatment and prognosis: 
There is currently no known cure for RMRP-related disorders. Treatment options focus on mitigating the symptoms of the disorder, such as joint issues or immune system dysfunction. With proper treatment, some individuals with RMRP mutations are able to live long and fulfilling lives. 

## Drug response: 
There is currently no known drug therapy specifically designed for RMRP-related disorders. 

## Related papers: 
- Subject: Cartilage-hair hypoplasia: follow-up of immunodeficiency in two patients and review of the literature. 
- Author: Terao et al., Clinical and Experimental Immunology
- DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2249.2007.03360.x

- Subject: Phenotypic variability in metaphyseal dysplasia without hypotrichosis caused by a novel intronic mutation in the RMRP gene. 
- Author: Cankaya et al., Journal of Clinical Research in Pediatric Endocrinology. 
- DOI: 10.4274/Jcrpe.4689

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**