---
title: "SLCO2A1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SLCO2A1"
tags: ['SLCO2A1', 'ProstaglandinTransporter', 'PGT', 'HypertrophicOsteoarthropathy', 'NSAIDs', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene SLCO2A1

## Genetic Position
The gene SLCO2A1 (solute carrier organic anion transporter family member 2A1) is located on the short arm of chromosome 10 at position 10q24.1.

## Pathology and Function
SLCO2A1 encodes a membrane transporter protein named prostaglandin transporter (PGT). This protein is involved in the uptake of prostaglandins, which are lipid molecules involved in inflammation and pain signaling. PGT plays a critical role in regulating the levels of prostaglandins in various tissues, including the reproductive tract, gastrointestinal tract, and kidneys. Mutations in the SLCO2A1 gene can lead to impaired PGT function, causing an accumulation of prostaglandins and resulting in various pathologies, such as infertility, enteropathy, and hypertension.

## Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- Gene: SLCO2A1
- Genomic Location: 10q24.1
- Aliases: PGT, OATP-E, SLC21A12

## External IDs
- HGNC: 10925
- NCBI Entrez: 6579
- Ensembl: ENSG00000180826
- OMIM: 601460
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q92959

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Asp99Asn (rs182215851)
- p.Pro225Leu (rs145433752)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.20+13T>C (rs967516728)
- c.2183A>G (rs1558979513)

## Related Disease
- Primary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy (PHO)

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no standard treatment for pathologies associated with SLCO2A1 mutations. Treatment options are mainly symptomatic and supportive, and prognosis varies depending on the severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response
Studies have shown that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), which target prostaglandin synthesis, may be effective in treating symptoms associated with SLCO2A1 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Primary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy caused by homozygous missense mutation in HPGD gene
- Author: H. Wang, Y. Zhang, G. Cui, et al.
- DOI: 10.1186/s40001-016-0242-6

- Subject: Identification of a mutation in the prostaglandin transporter gene, SLCO2A1, and its effect on maternal fecundity in Japanese Black cattle
- Author: S. Ibi, O. Sato, R. Miyake, et al.
- DOI: 10.1007/s11248-014-9802-x

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**