---
title: "MT CO1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene MT-CO1"
tags: ['MT_CO1', 'MitochondrialDiseases', 'CytochromeCOxidase', 'LebersHereditaryOpticNeuropathy', 'TreatmentOptions', 'GeneticMutations', 'EnergyProduction', 'VitaminSupplements']
---

## Information about gene MT-CO1

### Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

- **Genetic Position:** MT-CO1 is located on the mitochondrial genome and is a part of the cytochrome c oxidase subunit 1 gene.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in this gene have been associated with various mitochondrial diseases, including Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy, which is a condition characterized by vision loss.
- **Function:** MT-CO1 encodes a protein subunit of cytochrome c oxidase, a mitochondrial enzyme involved in electron transport and energy production.

### Gene Information

- **Function:** Cytochrome c oxidase subunit 1
- **External IDs and Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 7471
    - NCBI Entrez: 4512
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000198763
    - OMIM: 516030
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P00395
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:** 
    - Some AA mutations in MT-CO1 gene with dbSNP ID are listed below:
        - Met to Val substitution at position 1 (rs727499172)
        - Leu to Pro substitution at position 2 (rs727499173)
        - Ile to Thr substitution at position 3 (rs727499174)
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** None reported.
- **Related Disease:** Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy, mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS), Leigh syndrome, Alzheimer's disease, cancer, etc.
- **Treatment and Prognosis:** Currently, there is no cure for mitochondrial diseases. Treatment aims to manage symptoms and may include vitamins and supplements or supportive therapy. Prognosis varies depending on the severity and type of the disease.
- **Drug Response:** Some studies have suggested the potential use of vitamin supplements, such as coenzyme Q10 and creatine, in the treatment of mitochondrial diseases.
- **Related Papers:**
    - Author Name: Wallace, DC
      - DOI link: [10.1016/j.cell.2005.02.011]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2005.02.011).)
    - Author Name: Yu-Wai-Man, P, et al.
      - DOI link: [10.1016/j.ajo.2010.04.015]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajo.2010.04.015).)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**