---
title: "COG3"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: COG3"
tags: ['COG3', 'CongenitalDisorderOfGlycosylation', 'GolgiApparatus', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonSmallCellLungCancer', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

# Gene: COG3

## Information

**Genetic Position**: Chromosome 12: 56,589,629-56,625,996

**Pathology**: COG3 gene mutations have been associated with congenital disorder of glycosylation type II (CDG-II). This disorder affects the body's ability to produce properly glycosylated proteins which can lead to developmental delays, neurological problems, and other health issues. 

**Function**: COG3 encodes for an essential component of the conserved oligomeric Golgi (COG) complex, which is responsible for the proper glycosylation of proteins in the Golgi apparatus.

**Aliases**: Cog3, KIAA0725

**External IDs**: 
- HGNC: 25500
- NCBI Entrez: 9137
- Ensembl: ENSG00000135274
- OMIM: 606977
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O94826

## Mutation Information

**AA Mutation List**:
- p.R63C
- p.L407S
- p.C413S

**Mutation Type**: Missense mutation

**dbSNP IDs**:
- rs137853776
- rs137853787
- rs137853790

**Somatic SNVs/InDels**

No information found in COSMIC database.

## Related Diseases

- Congenital disorder of glycosylation type II (CDG-II)
- Non-small cell lung cancer 

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no cure for CDG-II. Treatment options focus on managing symptoms and can include physical therapy, speech therapy, and medication to control seizures. The prognosis varies depending on the severity of the individual's case.

As for non-small cell lung cancer, treatment options include surgery, chemotherapy, targeted therapy, and radiation therapy. The prognosis also varies depending on the stage of the cancer and other individual factors.

## Drug Response

No information found in PharmGKB database.

## References

- Marques-da-Silva, D., Dos Reis Ferreira, V., Monticelli, M., Janeiro, P., Videira, P. A., Witters, P., … Jaeken, J. (2017). COG5-CDG with a mild neurohepatic phenotype. Molecular genetics and metabolism, 120(1-2), 87–92. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymgme.2016.12.004)

- Shin, S. H., Kim, K. Y., Kim, I. J., & Lee, J. E. (2017). Chromosome 12q23.2-q24.1 amplification in a patient with non-small cell lung cancer identified by comprehensive genomic profiling. Lung cancer (Amsterdam, Netherlands), 113, 133–135. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lungcan.2017.09.017)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**