---
title: "SPINK1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# SPINK1 Gene Information"
tags: ['SPINK1', 'ProteaseInhibitor', 'ChronicPancreatitis', 'PancreaticCancer', 'GeneticTesting', 'Mutation', 'PancreaticInsufficiency', 'PainManagement']
---

# SPINK1 Gene Information

## Gene Function
SPINK1 is a gene that encodes for a protease inhibitor called pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor. This inhibitor regulates the activation of trypsinogen, a protease produced by the pancreas, preventing its inappropriate activation within the pancreas.

## External IDs, Genomic Location, and Aliases
- **HGNC ID:** 11227
- **NCBI Entrez Gene ID:**  SPLI
- **Ensembl Gene ID:** ENSG00000122779
- **OMIM ID:** 167790
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** P00995
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 5q32

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.101A>G (p.Asp34Gly) rs111033236
- c.194A>G (p.Asn65Ser) rs17107315
- c.251A>G (p.Asp84Gly) rs1801874
- c.267C>T (p.Arg89Cys) rs17107319
- c.371T>C (p.Leu124Pro) rs17684698

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Currently, there is no information available on somatic SNVs/InDels for SPINK1.

## Related Disease
Mutations in SPINK1 have been associated with many diseases, including chronic pancreatitis, tropical calcific pancreatitis, and pancreatic cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Patients with SPINK1 mutations have a predisposition to chronic pancreatitis, which is a chronic inflammation of the pancreas that can cause abdominal pain, pancreatic insufficiency, and other complications. Treatment usually involves pain management, enzyme replacement therapy, and lifestyle modifications. The prognosis of chronic pancreatitis can vary depending on the severity of the condition and the presence of complications.

## Drug Response
Currently, there is no information available on drug response for SPINK1.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** Association of SPINK1 gene variants with clinical outcomes of chronic pancreatitis.
**Author:** Yadav, D., & Lowenfels, A. B.
**DOI:** 10.1007/s00384-019-03266-3

- **Subject:** Genetic testing in pancreatic disease: guidelines from the Canadian Association of Gastroenterology.
**Author:** Alsop, J., Chari, S., Farrell, J., Bardeesy, N., & Gersthein, B.
**DOI:** 10.1093/ajcn/nqz035. (Appendix A)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**