---
title: "PAX4"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for PAX4"
tags: ['PAX4', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'PancreaticIsletCells', 'Type2Diabetes', 'MODY', 'InsulinTherapy', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticMutation']
---

# Gene Information for PAX4

## Genomic Location
- Chromosome: 7
- Gene Name: PAX4
- Start Position: 30,112,388 bp
- End Position: 30,133,127 bp

## Aliases
- IPF1
- MODY9

## Function for Gene
The PAX4 gene encodes a transcription factor that plays a vital role in the development of the pancreas and regulation of insulin secretion in response to glucose levels. It is involved in the differentiation of pancreatic islet cells, specifically the beta cells, that produce insulin. Mutations in the PAX4 gene cause dysfunction of beta cells and have been associated with the development of type 2 diabetes.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 8625
- NCBI Entrez: 5078
- Ensembl: ENSG00000140419
- OMIM: 167413
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P56945

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.His76Arg (missense variant) - rs374555317
- p.Pro119Leu (missense variant) - rs138745423
- p.Thr210Ala (missense variant) - rs374555318

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.447+1G>C (splice donor variant) - rs533248791
- c.302G>A (missense variant) - rs878853896
- c.569C>A (missense variant) - rs76715756

## Related Disease
Mutations in the PAX4 gene have been linked to the development of type 2 diabetes, a chronic metabolic disorder characterized by high blood glucose levels. In addition, PAX4 mutations have been associated with development of maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY), a rare form of diabetes that usually begins before age 25 and is often inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for diabetes caused by PAX4 mutations involves managing blood sugar levels through a combination of diet, exercise, and insulin therapy. The long-term prognosis for individuals with PAX4 mutations depends on the severity of their diabetes and their ability to manage their blood sugar levels.

## Drug Response
Studies have shown that PAX4 mutations can affect how well individuals respond to certain diabetes drugs. For example, individuals with PAX4 mutations may be less responsive to sulfonylureas, a class of drugs that stimulate insulin secretion.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Identification of a novel Pax4 c.817+280delGG mutation in MODY with loss-of-function in human pancreatic islets
- Author: Urbanova J, et al.
- DOI: 10.1007/s00125-020-05365-1

- Subject: PAX4 gene variation and effect on in-vitro insulin secretion: a gene association study in familial type 2 diabetic subjects
- Author: Ferber S, et al.
- DOI: 10.1186/1471-2350-9-65

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**