---
title: "KCNJ13"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene KCNJ13"
tags: ['KCNJ13', 'PotassiumChannel', 'SeSAME', 'EASTsyndrome', 'Mutation', 'SymptomManagement', 'AntiEGFRtherapy', 'ColorectalCancer']
---

# Gene KCNJ13

## Genetic position, pathology, and function:
- **Genetic position**: KCNJ13 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 2 (2q37.1).
- **Pathology**: Mutations in KCNJ13 gene are associated with SeSAME/EAST syndrome (Seizures, Sensorineural deafness, Ataxia, Mental retardation, and Electrolyte imbalance/ Epilepsy, Ataxia, Sensorineural Deafness, and Tubulopathy).
- **Function**: The KCNJ13 gene encodes for the Kir7.1 protein, which is a potassium channel that regulates the flow of K+ ions across cell membranes.

## Gene information:
- **Function for gene**: Potassium channel that regulates K+ ions flow across the cell membrane.
- **External IDs**: 
    - Gene: KCNJ13
    - Genomic location: Chr2:231325387-231349571
    - Aliases: KIAA1949, KIR7.1.
- **External sites**: 
    - HGNC: 6289
    - NCBI Entrez: 3767
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000143142
    - OMIM: 603208
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60932

## Mutations:
- **AA mutation list with mutation type and dbSNP ID**: 
    - A37V (missense) rs118202706
    - A183S (missense) rs377775340
    - K205N (missense) rs150792600
    - G226D (missense) rs145765652
    - S236F (missense) rs145235323
    - S236T (missense) rs142200299
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: None reported so far.

## Related disease:
- Mutations in KCNJ13 gene are associated with SeSAME/EAST syndrome (Seizures, Sensorineural deafness, Ataxia, Mental retardation, and Electrolyte imbalance/ Epilepsy, Ataxia, Sensorineural Deafness, and Tubulopathy).

## Treatment and prognosis:
- There is no cure for SeSAME/EAST syndrome currently. Treatment typically focuses on symptom management and includes medications to control seizures and ataxia. Prognosis generally depends on the severity of the symptoms and their response to treatment.

## Drug response:
- A study by Tudorache et al. (2019) showed that KCNJ13 gene expression may predict response to anti-EGFR therapy in colorectal cancer patients. However, the precise mechanism is not yet clear.

## References:
- Tudorache, I. L., Trifa, A. P., Nica, A. E., Badea, L., Purnichescu-Purtan, R., & Mihailovici, M. S. (2019). KCNJ13 gene expression: a promising predictive marker for response to anti-EGFR therapy in metastatic colorectal cancer patients. Journal of gastrointestinal and liver diseases: JGLD, 28(3), 287-293. doi: 10.15403/jgld-484

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**