---
title: "FAH"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene FAH"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'FAHGene', 'Tyrosinemia', 'LiverDisease', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Nitisinone', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information on Gene FAH

## Gene Information

- **Gene:** FAH
- **Aliases:** FCT, FPPS, PCT
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 15 (15q25.1)
- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 3557
    - NCBI Entrez: 2184
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000137823
    - OMIM: 613871
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P15118

## Function for Gene

The FAH gene encodes the fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase enzyme, which is primarily expressed in the liver. This enzyme is involved in the final step of tyrosine catabolism, which is the breakdown of tyrosine into fumarate and acetoacetate. Mutations in the FAH gene can lead to a deficiency in fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase, which causes the accumulation of toxic metabolites and can lead to a severe liver disease known as hereditary tyrosinemia type 1.

## Mutations

- **AA Mutation List:** A list of AA mutations in the FAH gene can be found on the UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot website.
- **Mutation Type:** Missense, nonsense, frameshift, splice site.
- **dbSNP ID:** A list of FAH gene mutations can be found on the NCBI dbSNP website.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

- **dbSNP ID:** A list of somatic variants in the FAH gene can be found on the NCBI dbSNP website.

## Related Disease

- **Disease:** Hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 (HT1)
- **Symptoms:** Liver and kidney failure, hepatocellular carcinoma, peripheral neuropathy.
- **Inheritance:** Autosomal recessive
- **Prevalence:** 1 in 100,000 to 1 in 120,000 births

## Treatment and Prognosis

The treatment for HT1 involves a low-tyrosine diet and medication to prevent the accumulation of toxic metabolites. In severe cases, a liver transplant may be necessary. With early diagnosis and treatment, the long-term outlook for HT1 patients is favorable.

## Drug Response

Patients with HT1 may be treated with nitisinone, which inhibits an earlier enzyme in the tyrosine catabolic pathway and reduces the accumulation of toxic metabolites. This medication has been shown to improve liver function in HT1 patients.

## References

- Mitchell, G. A., Grompe, M., Lambert, M., & Tanguay, R. M. (2001). *Hepatorenal tyrosinemia*. In GeneReviews® [Internet]. University of Washington, Seattle. Available from: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1427/)
- FAH mutations on the NCBI dbSNP website : [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/snp/rs374166247) 
- FAH gene AA mutations on the UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot website: [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/P15118)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**