---
title: "WIF1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information on Gene WIF1"
tags: ['WIF1', 'WntSignaling', 'TumorSuppressor', 'Cancer', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'SNVs', 'Prognosis', 'PancreaticCancer']
---

## Information on Gene WIF1
### Genetic Position
Gene WIF1, also known as Wnt inhibitory factor 1, is located on chromosome 12q14.3.

### Pathology and Function
WIF1 functions as a secreted signaling molecule, regulating the Wnt signaling pathway by binding to Wnt proteins. Wnt signaling is important in embryonic development and tissue regeneration. Aberrant Wnt signaling has been implicated in various diseases including cancer. WIF1 has been shown to be a tumor suppressor gene and its loss is associated with several cancers.

### External IDs and Genomic Location
- HGNC: HGNC:12789
- NCBI Entrez: 11197
- Ensembl: ENSG00000135046
- OMIM: 605285
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y5W5
- Genomic location: Chromosome 12q14.3

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
| AA Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| N/A | N/A | N/A |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
| Mutation Type | dbSNP ID | Cancer Type |
| --- | --- | --- |
| SNV | rs34892744 | Colorectal Cancer |
| SNV | rs2071409 | Prostate Cancer |

### Related Disease
WIF1 has been implicated in several diseases, including:
- Cancer (Colorectal, Prostate, Pancreatic, Lung, Breast, and others)

### Treatment and Prognosis
WIF1 has potential as a therapeutic target for cancer treatment, particularly those cancers that exhibit downregulation of WIF1 expression.

### Drug Response
N/A

### Related Papers
- Subject: WIF1 as a Tumor Suppressor in Breast Cancer
  - Author: Perez-Pena, EA. et al.
  - DOI: 10.3390/cells10020380
- Subject: WIF1 and pancreatic cancer
  - Author: Gong, Y. et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/cjp2.184

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**