---
title: "MTHFD1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: MTHFD1  "
tags: ['MTHFD1', 'OneCarbonMetabolism', 'NeuralTubeDefects', 'Cancer', 'Schizophrenia', 'FolicAcid', 'GeneticVariants', 'PurineBiosynthesis']
---

## Gene: MTHFD1  

### Genetic Position  
The MTHFD1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 14 at position 14q24.3.  

### Pathology  
MTHFD1 gene is involved in various biological pathways, including one-carbon metabolism, methylation, and purine synthesis. Mutations in this gene have been associated with susceptibility to various diseases, including neural tube defects, cancer, and Alzheimer's disease.  
 
### Function  
MTHFD1 encodes a trifunctional enzyme that plays a critical role in one-carbon metabolism. It is responsible for the interconversion of 10-formyltetrahydrofolate, 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate, and 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate. Additionally, the enzyme has a regulatory function in the de novo purine nucleotide biosynthesis pathway. 

### External IDs and Aliases  

- HGNC: 7427
- NCBI Entrez: 4522
- Ensembl: ENSG00000171428
- OMIM: 172460
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13231

Aliases - C1-TF, MLR12, MTHFC, MTHFD1L

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID  

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| R653Q | Missense | rs2236225 |
| D919G | Missense | rs2236226 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID  

| Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- |
| Missense | rs764982369 |
| Missense | rs786204456 | 

### Related Disease  
MTHFD1 variants are associated with neural tube defects, homocysteine levels, schizophrenia, alcoholic liver disease, and cancer. 

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment for MTHFD1-related disorders, but supplementation with folic acid may help to reduce the risk of neural tube defects. Prognosis depends on the specific disease association. 

### Drug Response  
No clear evidence indicating differential drug response according to MTHFD1 status has been reported. 

### Related Papers  

- Subject: Functional Characterization of MTHFD1 as a Novel Oncogene in Hepatocellular Carcinoma
  - Author: Xuefei Li, et al.
  - DOI Link: 10.1159/000499915

- Subject: The MTHFD1L Gene May Influence Mental Health in Schizophrenia
  - Author: Iwona Małkiewicz, et al.
  - DOI Link: 10.3390/ijms20225541

- Subject: Neural tube defects: an overview of the current state of research, diagnosis, and treatment
  - Author: Sonali Sarkar, et al.
  - DOI Link: 10.2147/TACG.S128313

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**