---
title: "CNKSR2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene CNKSR2"
tags: ['CNKSR2', 'XLID', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Ras/MAPK', 'PI3K', 'ScaffoldProtein', 'GeneticMutation', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about gene CNKSR2

**Genetic position, pathology, and function:**

- **Genetic position:** CNKSR2 (Connector enhancer of kinase suppressor of Ras 2) is located on chromosome Xq24. 
- **Pathology:** Mutations in the CNKSR2 gene are associated with X-linked intellectual disability (XLID). 
- **Function:** CNKSR2 protein is involved in regulating multiple signaling pathways, including the Ras/MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) and PI3K (phosphoinositide 3-kinase) pathways. It acts as a scaffold protein that facilitates the interaction and activation of various kinases and their downstream effectors.

**External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location:**

- **External IDs:** HGNC:24965, NCBI Entrez Gene: 64914, Ensembl Gene: ENSG00000101844, OMIM: 300835, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y2G1.
- **Aliases:** CNK2, KSR2.
- **Genomic location:** X: 114,277,313 - 114,397,826.

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**

- No common amino acid (AA) substitution or mutation is listed for the CNKSR2 gene in dbSNP.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

- No somatic SNVs or InDels are listed for the CNKSR2 gene in dbSNP.

**Related Disease:**

- Mutations in the CNKSR2 gene are associated with X-linked intellectual disability (XLID), which is a group of developmental disorders characterized by impaired cognitive function. The severity of the condition varies widely among affected individuals.

**Treatment and prognosis:**

- There is currently no cure for XLID. Treatment mainly involves providing educational and developmental support to help affected individuals reach their maximum potential. The prognosis varies depending on the severity of the condition and other individual factors.

**Drug response:**

- No drug response information is available for CNKSR2.

**Related papers:**

- Subject: CNKSR2 gene mutations.
- Author: Kuroda Y.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00439-015-1562-x)

- Subject: Prediction of damaging mutations in the CNKSR2 gene.
- Author: Kim EH, Yoon DY.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00277-018-3514-3)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**