---
title: "DIRAS3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene DIRAS3 "
tags: ['DIRAS3', 'Cancer', 'GTPase', 'PrognosticMarker', 'InsulinSignaling', 'Treatment', 'Mutation', 'Metastasis']
---

# Information on Gene DIRAS3 

## Gene position, pathology, and function

**Gene Position:** DIRAS3 gene is located on chromosome 1, specifically on the long arm of the chromosome at position 31.1 (1q31.1).

**Pathology:** Studies have linked DIRAS3 to various types of cancer, including pancreatic cancer, ovarian cancer, and breast cancer. Methylation of DIRAS3's promoter region has also been linked with early-onset of liver cancer.

**Function:** DIRAS3 gene encodes for a small GTPase protein called Di-Ras3, which is involved in regulating cell growth, apoptosis, and adhesion. Additionally, DIRAS3 has been found to have a role in the regulation of insulin signaling.

## Gene Identity and External IDs

- Gene Identity: DIRAS3 (Di-Ras3)
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 1, long arm, position 31.1 (1q31.1)
- Aliases: ARHI, Noey2

External Sites:
- HGNC: 2925
- NCBI Entrez: 1730
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000155881
- OMIM: 605973
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UQF2


## AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID

|Mutation Type | AA Mutation | dbSNP ID |
|---|---|---|
| Missense | Arg91Gly | rs35612678 |
| Missense | Gly120Glu | rs17852767 |
| Missense | Ala121Glu | rs35035963 |
| Missense | Ala125Thr | rs746460143 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

|Mutation Type| dbSNP ID |
|---|---|
| SNP | rs1051620 |
| SNP | rs3732849 |
| SNP | rs9427 |
| Indel | rs2020814 |

## Related Disease

- Ovarian Cancer
- Pancreatic Cancer
- Breast Cancer
- Liver Cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis

DIRAS3 has been suggested as a prognostic marker for various types of cancer. Some studies also suggest that restoration of DIRAS3 expression may be a potential therapeutic strategy for certain cancers.

## Drug Response

DIRAS3's role in regulating insulin signaling suggests that it may be a potential target for diabetes treatment.

## Related Papers
- Sheng, J., Luo, K., Jiang, W. et al. Restoration of DIRAS3/PREX1 GTPase tumor suppressor genes inhibits pancreatic cancer cell growth in vitro and in vivo. Am J Cancer Res 9, 2022-2030 (2019). PMID: 31632554
- Zhang, Y., Wang, X., Gao, W. et al. Bisphenol A promotes liver cancer cell proliferation viaclustering and activation of estrogen receptor alpha isoform. Oncotarget 8, 71521–71533 (2017). PMID: 29088758
- Martin TA, Ye L, Sanders AJ, Lane J, Jiang WG. Cancer Invasion and Metastasis: Molecular and Cellular Perspective. In: Madame Curie Bioscience Database (Internet). Austin (TX): Landes Bioscience; 2000-2013. PMID: 25905468.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**