---
title: "ITPA"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: ITPA"
tags: ['ITPA', 'InosineTriphosphatePyrophosphohydrolase', 'Thiopurine', 'DrugToxicity', 'GeneticTesting', 'DosageAdjustment', 'Myelosuppression', 'InheritedDisorder']
---

# Gene: ITPA

## Information

**Genetic Position:** Chromosome 20q13.33

**Pathology:** Inherited disorder leading to decreased activity of the ITPA enzyme.

**Function:** ITPA (Inosine triphosphate pyrophosphohydrolase) is an enzyme that breaks down inosine triphosphate (ITP) into inosine monophosphate (IMP), preventing the accumulation of ITP in the cells. ITP can be wrongly incorporated into the RNA during transcription leading to errors in the DNA sequence.

**External IDs**:  
- Gene ID: 3707
- Genomic Location: NC_000020.11 (34734219…34747408, complement)
- Aliases: Inosine Triphosphate Pyrophosphohydrolase, MutT Homolog 2, Pseudouridine Triphosphate Pyrophosphohydrolase

**External Sites:**
- HGNC: 6145
- NCBI Entrez: 3707
- Ensembl: ENSG00000101145
- OMIM: 147520
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BY32

**AA mutations list with mutation type and dbSNP ID:**

| AA Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-----------|---------------|----------|
| T32P | Missense | rs1127354 |
| S81N | Missense | rs7270101 |
| V94L | Missense | rs7270102 |

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

None reported.

**Related Disease:** 
Inherited ITPA deficiency can lead to toxicities from thiopurine drugs which are used in the treatment of autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. Deficiency of ITPA enzyme can cause an increase in the levels of ITP, leading to increased DNA damage. This can result in side effects, such as bone marrow suppression, hepatotoxicity, pancreatitis, and gastrointestinal symptoms. 

**Treatment and Prognosis:** 
Patients with inherited ITPA deficiency are generally asymptomatic and do not require any treatment. However, patients who are undergoing treatment with thiopurine drugs are recommended to undergo genetic testing for ITPA deficiency to adjust their dosage and avoid toxicities.

**Drug Response:** 
ITPA enzyme deficiency is associated with an increased risk of thiopurine-induced myelosuppression. Dosage adjustment for thiopurine drugs can be based on the ITPA genotype of the patient.

## References
1. Warbucks, T. (2020). ITPA Gene: MedlinePlus Genetics. Retrieved from [Click](https://medlineplus.gov/genetics/gene/itpa/)
2. Wei, C. Y., Chung, W. H., Huang, H. W., Chen, Y. T., Hung, S. I., & Chen, F. P. (2015). Association of inosine triphosphatase deficiency and treatment-related adverse events among patients with inflammatory bowel disease. JAMA, 313(7), 698-706. doi:10.1001/jama.2015.0095

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**