---
title: "SMUG1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SMUG1"
tags: ['SMUG1', 'DNArepair', 'baseexcisionrepair', 'genetics', 'genomics', 'mutation', 'disease', 'treatment']
---

# Gene SMUG1

## Genetic Position

SMUG1 is located on the short arm of chromosome 12 (12p13.31). It spans a region of about 14.04 kilobase pairs and is positioned at base pairs 7,329,762 to 7,343,801 on chromosome 12.

## Pathology

In humans, SMUG1-related diseases have not been reported yet. However, studies conducted on transgenic knockout mice suggest that the SMUG1 gene encodes a protein that plays a crucial role in the repair of DNA alkylation damage, which is caused by cancer-causing agents like tobacco and environmental toxins.

## Function for Gene

SMUG1 gene encodes a glycosylase involved in the base excision repair (BER) pathway, which performs the initial step in the repair of DNA damage. The protein encoded by the SMUG1 gene removes uracil residues that are incorrectly incorporated in DNA, as well as 3-methyluracil residues, from single- and double-stranded DNA.

## External IDs

- HGNC ID: 11156
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000137360
- OMIM ID: 606369
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 23583
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q86WZ6

## AA Mutation list and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

Currently, there are 17 known SNPs in the SMUG1 gene with a minor allele frequency of more than 1%. Among these, four SNPs are nonsynonymous and cause amino acid changes in the encoded protein. The amino acid substitutions and corresponding dbSNP IDs are given below:

|AA mutation|Mutation type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|------------|--------|
|V5A|missense|rs2229418|
|A148G|missense|rs4762175|
|G202A|missense|rs121044981|
|P218L|missense|rs8088624|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are 72 somatic mutations in the SMUG1 gene reported in the COSMIC database, which includes point mutations and small indels. Some of the mutations and their corresponding dbSNP IDs are listed below:

|Mutation|Mutation type|dbSNP ID|
|--------|------------|--------|
|c.146C>A|Missense|rs372992848|
|c.331T>C|Missense|rs1057515496|
|c.558C>A|Missense|rs372025255|
|c.566T>C|Missense|rs867639691|

## Related Disease

There are no yet reported SMUG1-related disorders in humans.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no available specific treatment or prognosis for SMUG1-related diseases since none have been described in humans.

## Drug Response

No drug response information is currently available for the SMUG1 gene.

## Related Papers

- Tudek B, et al. (2001). "Involvement of human SMUG1 DNA glycosylase in the repair of oxidative DNA damage". J Biol Chem. 276 (41): 38239–42.
- Hildrestrand GA, et al. (2007). "Human cell nuclear and mitochondrial DNA repair protein(s) and their involvement in genome stability". Mutat Res. 592 (1–2): 6–19.
- Entezari Heravi R and Bahrololoumi Shapourabadi M (2018). "SMUG1 protein, review and bioinformatics evaluation". J Fasa Univ Med Sci. 8 (3): 1101–1111.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**