---
title: "IER3IP1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene IER3IP1"
tags: ['GeneIER3IP1', 'CellGrowth', 'Cancer', 'MissenseMutations', 'OvarianCancer', 'Regulation', 'Expression', 'UniProtKB']
---

# Information about Gene IER3IP1

## Gene Information
- **Function:** IER3IP1 (Immediate Early Response 3 Interacting Protein 1) encodes for a protein that plays a role in the regulation of cell growth and survival.
- **Genomic Location:** IER3IP1 is located on the long arm of chromosome 14 (14q11.2).
- **Aliases:** C14orf101, KIAA1671

## External IDs and Sites
- **HGNC ID:** 25753
- **NCBI Entrez Gene:** 84125
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000100985
- **OMIM ID:** 611673
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** Q8NBS9

## Mutation Information
- **AA Mutation List:** A list of AA mutations associated with IER3IP1 can be found on the UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot website using the ID Q8NBS9.
- **Mutation Type:** Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with IER3IP1 are missense mutations.
- **dbSNP ID:** A list of dbSNP IDs associated with IER3IP1 can be found on the NCBI Entrez Gene website using the ID 84125.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- There is no information on somatic SNVs/InDels for IER3IP1.

## Related Diseases
- While there is no direct link between IER3IP1 mutations and disease, studies have shown that dysregulation of IER3IP1 expression can be a contributing factor in the development of certain cancers, such as ovarian cancer. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there are no treatments or prognostic indications specific to IER3IP1 mutations.

## Drug Response
- There is no information on drug response related to IER3IP1 mutations.
 
## Related Papers
- **Subject:** Regulation of IER3IP1 Expression
- **Author:** Kai Tao, Ying-Hsuan Li, Bo Zhang et al.
- **DOI:** 10.3892/mmr.2018.8725

- **Subject:** IER3IP1 in Ovarian Cancer Development
- **Author:** Kian Ngiap Chua, Gavin P. Robertson, Wen Shan Yew et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1002/path.4653

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**