---
title: "CCDC22"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Information About Gene CCDC22"
tags: ['CCDC22', 'CiliaryFunction', 'GeneticDiseases', 'SomaticMutations', 'PrimaryCiliaryDyskinesia', 'OvarianInsufficiency', 'LungCancer', 'ExomeSequencing']
---

### Information About Gene CCDC22

**Genetic Position**: CCDC22 is located on chromosome 2 at the genomic position 2q33.1.

**Pathology**: Studies have suggested CCDC22 as a contributor to various diseases including breast cancer, lung cancer, and prostate cancer.

**Function**: CCDC22 is involved in the proper formation of cilia and flagella, which are essential for various cellular processes such as signaling, motility, and sensing the environment.

**External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location**:
- HGNC: 17788
- NCBI Entrez: 151887
- Ensembl: ENSG00000133246
- OMIM: 609139
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H7S9
- Aliases: FLJ34481, KIAA1271

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID**: Currently, there are no known AA mutations for CCDC22 on record.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: Several somatic mutations have been reported in CCDC22, including SNVs and InDels. The following are some examples with their corresponding dbSNP IDs:
- rs746699739
- rs368234089
- rs777980082

**Related Disease**: Mutations in CCDC22 are linked to various genetic diseases affecting ciliary function such as primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) and situs inversus totalis.

**Treatment and Prognosis**: Currently, there are no known specific treatments or cures for genetic diseases caused by CCDC22 mutations. Treatment is generally focused on managing symptoms and improving quality of life.

**Drug Response**: There is currently no available information on how CCDC22 mutations affect drug response.

#### Related Papers

1. Subject: "Whole exome sequencing identifies CCDC22 as a responsible gene for nonsyndromic primary ovarian insufficiency"  
   Author: Xu, Jin  
   DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.61758
   
2. Subject: "Identification of CCDC22 as a novel candidate gene for primary ciliary dyskinesia using whole-exome sequencing"  
   Author: Zhu, Li  
   DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2018.06.012
   
3. Subject: "Knockdown of CCDC22 upregulate CBF-β and promote cell proliferation, migration and invasion in human lung adenocarcinoma"  
   Author: Liu, Yinan  
   DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2018.06.069

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**