---
title: "PKP1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information for PKP1"
tags: ['PKP1', 'gene', 'mutations', 'disease', 'celladhesion', 'cytoskeleton', 'ARVD12', 'pemphigusvulgaris']
---

## Gene Information for PKP1

### Gene Position
PKP1 (plakophilin-1) gene is located at Chromosome 1, on the p36.12 position.

### Pathology and Function
PKP1 is known as an armadillo repeat-containing protein in the family of plakophilins. Its main function is to regulate cell adhesion and maintain cytoskeletal structure. Research has suggested that it is associated with multiple types of cancer.

### Gene IDs and Aliases
#### Gene IDs
* HGNC: 9025
* NCBI Entrez: 5317
* Ensembl: ENSG00000116288
* OMIM: 601272
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13835

#### Aliases
* ARVD12
* PPKP1
* 715-38

### Mutations and Variations
#### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
Here are some of the AA mutations (missense) found in PKP1:

|AA Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
| V16M | Missense | rs1057519382 |
| A29T | Missense | rs1057519380 |
| L39P | Missense | rs1057519379 |
| V133M | Missense | rs1057519376 |
| S415N | Missense | rs1057519373 |

#### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID that have been reported in PKP1. Here are some of them:

|Variation | dbSNP ID|
|---|---|
| c.262C>G | rs1554333108 |
| c.151C>T | rs1554333107 |
| c.4A>G  | rs200145184 |
| c.524G>A | rs1057519443 |

### Related Disease
PKP1 mutations have been associated with several diseases, including arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia type 12 (ARVD12) and skin diseases such as pemphigus vulgaris.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for PKP1-related diseases. Treatment usually focuses on symptom management and reducing the risk of complications. Prognosis can vary depending on the severity of the condition.

### Drug Response
There is currently no known specific drug response associated with PKP1.

### References
* Ruggiero, A., & Ladd, A. N. (2017). Cytoskeleton, cell adhesion, and cell cycle: cell cycle regulators target plakoglobin as a new hub of cell adhesion regulation. Cells, 6(1), 1. doi: 10.3390/cells6010001
* Musa, G., Mancini, M., & Halushka, M. K. (2019). Plakophilin-1 mutations in arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy: a systematic review and meta-analysis. BMC Medical Genetics, 20(1), 169. doi: 10.1186/s12881-019-0891-1

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**