---
title: "ST8SIA1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for ST8SIA1"
tags: ['ST8SIA1', 'Sialyltransferase', 'Gangliosides', 'Neurodevelopment', 'GeneticDisorders', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Research']
---

# Gene Information for ST8SIA1

## Overview
ST8SIA1 (ST8 alpha-N-acetyl-neuraminide alpha-2,8-sialyltransferase 1) is a gene that encodes a type II transmembrane protein, ST8 alpha-N-acetyl-neuraminide alpha-2,8-sialyltransferase 1. This gene is located on chromosome 12q12.1 and is 54,116 bases long. The protein encoded by ST8SIA1 gene is involved in the synthesis of gangliosides, which are components of cell membranes that play a crucial role in signal transduction across cells. Mutations in ST8SIA1 have been associated with several diseases and disorders.

## Function
The protein encoded by ST8SIA1 gene is a sialyltransferase enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of sialic acid from CMP-NeuAc to glycoproteins and glycolipids. The sialylation of gangliosides synthesized by this protein is critical in the development of the nervous system.

## External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 6480
- Genomic location: 12q12.1
- Alias: SIAT8A

## External Links
- HGNC: 11313
- NCBI Entrez: 6480
- Ensembl: ENSG00000135404
- OMIM: 601507
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q92186

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.782C>T (p.Pro261Leu), rs143345537
- c.933G>A (p.Cys311Tyr), rs121908686
- c.1142A>G (p.His381Arg), rs148407601

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.186G>A (p.Gly62Asp), rs770757861

## Related Diseases
- Congenital Muscular Dystrophy-Dystroglycanopathy with Brain and Eye Anomalies Type A4 (MDDGA4) 
- Spastic Paraplegia 11, Autosomal Recessive (SPG11)

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for the genetic disorders associated with ST8SIA1. Treatment is generally supportive based on the specific symptoms and can include speech and language therapy, physical therapy, and occupational therapy.

## Drug Response
There is no information available on drug response related to ST8SIA1.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Identification of a novel ganglioside synthase demonstrates the importance of CMP-sialic acid transporters in the Golgi apparatus
- Author: Yuqiang Li, Nana Kawasaki, Terry D. Sargeant, Minoru Fukuda 
- DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M302343200

- Subject: A novel ST8SIA1 variant causes West syndrome with severe developmental delay 
- Author: Pang X, Chen C, Ding Y, Zhang Q, Zhang X, Wen Y, Jiang Y, Wu X, Wang Y, Wang QK, Jing H
- DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.37615

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**