---
title: "THBS1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: THBS1"
tags: ['THBS1', 'GeneFunction', 'GenomicLocation', 'Disease', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Gene Information: THBS1

## Gene Position
- Genomic Location: 15q13.1
- Chromosome Number: Chromosome 15

## Function
- The THBS1 gene encodes for thrombospondin-1, which is involved in cell adhesion, endothelial cell migration, and angiogenesis.
- It has also been linked to the modulation of inflammation and the regulation of TGF-β activity.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 11878
- NCBI Entrez ID: 7057
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000137869
- OMIM ID: 188060
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P07996
- Aliases: THBS, THBS-1, TSP, TSP-1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
No AA mutations were found for THBS1 gene in dbSNP.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs/InDels were found for THBS1 gene in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
- Thrombospondin-1 deficiency: Various studies have indicated the potential role of thrombospondin-1 deficiency in cancer and tumor microenvironments.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment: Currently, there are no specific treatments for thrombospondin-1 deficiency, but treatment would focus on symptom management.
- Prognosis: The prognosis for thrombospondin-1 deficiency is currently unknown due to limited research.

## Drug Response
There is limited research on drug response for thrombospondin-1 deficiency.

## Related Papers
- **Subject**: Role of thrombospondin-1 deficiency in tumor microenvironment
- **Author**: Ren B, Yang X, et al.
- **DOI**: 10.1007/s13402-020-00559-5

- **Subject**: Thrombospondin-1 modulates inflammation
- **Author**: Chen S, Crawford M, et al.
- **DOI**: 10.14218/JCTH.2019.00011

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**