---
title: "CPT1A"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: CPT1A"
tags: ['CPT1A', 'FattyAcidMetabolism', 'MetabolicDisorders', 'CPT1ADeficiency', 'MultidisciplinaryCare', 'NoCure', 'SymptomManagement', 'NextGenerationSequencing']
---

# Gene: CPT1A

## Information

- **Genetic position:** Chromosome 11q13.1
- **Pathology and Function:** CPT1A gene encodes for the protein carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A, which is responsible for the transport of long-chain fatty acids into mitochondria. CPT1A plays a crucial role in the regulation of fatty acid oxidation in the liver and plays a role in energy homeostasis.
- **Function:** The main function is related to fatty acid metabolism. Variants or mutations identified on this gene can lead to several metabolic disorders.
- **External IDs:**
    - Gene ID: 1374
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000168546
    - NCBI: NM_001876
    - HGNC: 2348
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P50416
- **Aliases:** CACP, CPTIA, L-CPTI.

## CPT1A Variants Information

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    -  p.Ser113Leu (rs80356779)
    -  p.Leu479Val (rs80356778)
    -  p.Arg498Trp (rs80356780)
    
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - Not applicable

## Related Disease

- CPT1A deficiency: CPT1A deficiency causes several metabolic disorders such as hypoketotic hypoglycemia, liver dysfunction, cardiomyopathy, and convulsions.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- Patients with CPT1A deficiency requires multidisciplinary care which includes a high-carbohydrate diet, avoidance of fasting, especially in infants, child neurology for seizures, and cardiology monitoring. 
- There is currently no definitive cure for CPT1A deficiency, and the treatment focuses on alleviating the symptoms and improving the quality of life.

## Drug Response

- There is no information available on drug response related to CPT1A gene.

## Related papers

- Fu J, et al. Molecular diagnosis of carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A deficiency in Chinese patients by targeted next-generation sequencing. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2019;14(1):139. Published 2019 Jun 20. doi:10.1186/s13023-019-1106-2
- Tucci S, Flögel U, Sturm M. Elevated carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A activity in the livers of two patients suggests possible progressive hepatic steatosis. JIMD Rep. 2013;11:27-33. doi:10.1007/8904_2012_167
- Harris RA, Bowker-Kinley MM, Huang B, Wu P. Regulation of the activity of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. Adv Enzyme Regul. 2002;42:249-259. doi:10.1016/s0065-2571(01)00038-1

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**