---
title: "EXT2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: EXT2"
tags: ['EXT2', 'HereditaryMultipleExostoses', 'Osteochondromas', 'Glycosaminoglycan', 'MissenseMutation', 'PainManagement', 'PhysicalTherapy', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: EXT2

## Information
- **Pathology:** EXT2 gene mutations have been associated with hereditary multiple exostoses type 2 (HME2), a rare genetic disorder characterized by the development of multiple benign bone tumors called osteochondromas.
- **Function:** The EXT2 gene encodes for a protein called exostosin-2, which plays a role in the biosynthesis of heparan sulfate, a type of glycosaminoglycan (GAG) that is involved in many cell signaling pathways and extracellular matrix regulation.
- **Genetic position:** Chromosome 11, 11p11.2-p12
- **Aliases:** HME2, multiple osteochondromas, exostoses syndrome, hereditary multiple osteochondromas
- **External IDs:**
  - HGNC: 3490
  - NCBI Entrez Gene: 2132
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000153039
  - OMIM: 608210
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q93063

## Mutations
- **AA mutation list:**

Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID
-------- | ---- | --------
Ala181Thr | Missense | rs28936694
Glu239Lys | Missense | rs104894422
Ala328Thr | Missense | rs28936695

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:** No somatic mutations have been reported in the EXT2 gene.

## Related Disease
- Hereditary multiple exostoses type 2 (HME2)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no cure for hereditary multiple exostoses type 2, and treatment is aimed at managing the symptoms.
- Symptomatic treatment may include surgical removal of osteochondromas, physical therapy to improve joint mobility and function, and pain management.
- Prognosis is generally good, but this can vary depending on the severity and location of the osteochondromas.

## Drug Response
- There is limited information on drug response in HME2, since there are no specific drugs that target the condition.
- In some cases, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may be used to manage pain and inflammation associated with osteochondromas.

## Related papers
- Li X, Yin J, Zhang L, Zhang X. [A novel misssense mutation of EXT2 in a Chinese family with hereditary multiple exostoses](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gene.2018.03.085).) Gene. 2018 Jun 10; 659:128-132.
- Hameetman L, Szuhai K, Yavas A, et al. [The role of EXT1 and EXT2 in hereditary multiple exostoses](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2004.06.007).) Am J Hum Genet. 2004 Sep; 75(3): 435-43.
- Vázquez-López A, Fernández-Santos P, Gómez García I, et al. [Hereditary multiple exostoses: A review of clinical appearance and metabolic pattern](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbadis.2018.02.026).) Biochim Biophys Acta. 2018 Jul; 1864(7): 2291-2301.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**