---
title: "PTPN22"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information"
tags: ['PTPN22', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'Immunology', 'Genetics', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene Information

**Gene:** PTPN22 

**Aliases:** LYP, PTPN8

**Genomic Location:** Chromosome 1 (1p13.2)

**External IDs:**
- HGNC: 9642
- NCBI Entrez: 26191
- Ensembl: ENSG00000134243
- OMIM: 600716
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y2R2

## Function
PTPN22 encodes for a protein tyrosine phosphatase that has a critical role in regulating immune cell signaling. It modulates several pathways that are involved in T-cell activation and B-cell receptor signaling. The PTPN22 protein is expressed in T- and B-lymphocytes, natural killer cells, and myeloid cells, where it modulates the activation of immune cells.

## Mutations
- The missense variant rs2476601 is the most well-studied mutation within the PTPN22 gene. It results in the substitution of arginine for a tryptophan at amino acid position 620 (R620W). This variant has been associated with an increased risk for developing autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, type 1 diabetes, and systemic lupus erythematosus.

## Related Diseases
Autoimmune Diseases:
- Rheumatoid arthritis
- Type 1 diabetes
- Systemic lupus erythematosus
- Graves' disease
- Hashimoto's thyroiditis
- Multiple sclerosis

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for autoimmune diseases, and treatments aim to relieve symptoms, slow down the progression of the disease, and prevent complications. However, no specific treatments have been developed for the PTPN22 R620W variant. Patients may be treated with immunosuppressive drugs to reduce inflammation and slow down the progression of the disease.

## Drug Response
Studies have suggested that patients with the PTPN22 R620W variant may respond differently to certain drugs used to treat autoimmune diseases. For example, they may not respond as well to TNF inhibitors and may be more sensitive to certain immunosuppressive drugs, such as cyclosporine.

## References
- Vang T et al. (2008). "Autoimmune-associated lymphoid tyrosine phosphatase is a gain-of-function variant". Nature Genetics. 37 (12): 1317–1319. DOI: 10.1038/ng1680.
- Zhernakova A et al. (2011). "Evolutionary and functional analysis of PTPN22 haplotypes reveals how many autoimmune diseases risk variants are related". Human Molecular Genetics. 20 (20): 4137–4145. DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddr337.
- Suarez-Gestal M et al. (2011). "PTPN22 coding variant and risk of rheumatoid arthritis: A comprehensive meta-analysis involving 24,527 rheumatoid arthritis patients and 43,328 controls". Annals of the Rheumatic Diseases. 70 (4): 714–717. DOI: 10.1136/ard.2010.139774.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**