---
title: "FCGR2B"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene FCGR2B"
tags: ['FCGR2B', 'ImmuneDiseases', 'FcGammaReceptor', 'GeneticVariants', 'AutoimmuneTherapies', 'DrugResponse', 'SomaticMutations', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene FCGR2B

## Genetic Position
The gene FCGR2B is located on chromosome 1 at the position 1q23.3.

## Pathology
FCGR2B gene is associated with various immune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus, autoimmune hemolytic anemia, and rheumatoid arthritis.

## Function
FCGR2B gene encodes a protein known as Fc gamma receptor IIb. This receptor is expressed on the surface of immune cells such as B cells, monocytes, and macrophages. It plays an important role in regulating immune responses by inhibiting the activation signals initiated by Fc gamma receptors.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 3614
- NCBI Entrez: 2213
- Ensembl: ENSG00000157823
- OMIM: 604590
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P31994

Aliases:
- CD32
- FCG2
- IGFR2

## AA mutation list and mutation types with dbSNP IDs
- R131H (rs1050501)
- S180L (rs114945036)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.1067 G>A (p.Arg356His) (rs16840252)
- c.759 G>A (p.Ala253Thr) (rs200387614)

## Related Diseases
- Systemic lupus erythematosus
- Autoimmune hemolytic anemia
- Rheumatoid arthritis

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for immune diseases associated with FCGR2B gene mutations. Treatment involves managing the symptoms with therapies such as immunosuppressive drugs, biologic agents, and corticosteroids.

## Drug Response
Patients with autoimmune diseases may respond differently to different types of medications. However, some studies have suggested that FCGR2B genetic variants can impact the efficacy of certain biologic agents such as rituximab.

## Related Papers
- Li X, Wu J, Ptacek T, Redden DT, Brown EE, Alarcón GS, Ramsey-Goldman R, Petri MA, Reveille JD, Edberg JC, Kimberly RP, Bae SC, Alarcón-Riquelme ME, Vilá LM, Gaffney PM, James JA, Jacob CO, Moser Sivils KL, Harley JB, Merrill JT, Vyse TJ, D'Alfonso S, Martin J, Wakeland EK, Kaufman KM. Genetics of Fcγ receptors in systemic lupus erythematosus. Semin Arthritis Rheum. 2019 Oct;49(2):200-209. doi: 10.1016/j.semarthrit.2018.05.007. Epub 2018 May 31. PMID: 30224364; PMCID: PMC6192558.

- Ackerman ME, Crispin M, Yu X, Baruah K, Boesch AW, Harvey DJ, Dugast AS, Heizen EL, Ercan A, Choi I, Streeck H, Nigrovic PA, Bailey-Kellogg C, Scanlan C, Alter G. Natural variation in Fc glycosylation of HIV-specific antibodies impacts antiviral activity. J Clin Invest. 2013 Jul;123(7):2183-92. doi: 10.1172/JCI65708. Epub 2013 Jun 24. PMID: 23778141; PMCID: PMC3696559.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**