---
title: "PEX10"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene PEX10"
tags: ['Summary', 'of', 'PEX10', 'Gene', 'Informati']
---

# Information about gene PEX10

## Genetic Position

PEX10 gene is located on chromosome 1 at position 1p36.13.

## Pathology

Mutations in PEX10 gene cause peroxisome biogenesis disorders of the Zellweger syndrome spectrum (PBD-ZSS), a group of rare autosomal recessive disorders affecting multiple organ systems. These disorders are characterized by the absence or malfunction of peroxisomes, leading to abnormal accumulation of toxic substances in various body tissues.

## Function

PEX10 encodes a protein involved in the biogenesis of peroxisomes, organelles involved in various metabolic processes including fatty acid oxidation and detoxification of reactive oxygen species.

## External IDs and Aliases

* HGNC ID: 8805
* Entrez Gene: 5192
* Ensembl Gene: ENSG00000135914
* OMIM ID: 602859
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O00625
* Aliases: PBD6A, PBD6B

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are various mutations reported in PEX10 gene, some of them are:

|Mutation Type|AA Mutation|dbSNP ID|
|-------------|-----------|--------|
|Missense|p.Lys289Glu|rs28936686|
|Missense|p.Arg81Cys|rs797044335|
|Missense|p.Cys336Tyr|rs397514520|
|Missense|p.Leu268Arg|rs797044337|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels reported in PEX10 gene.

## Related Disease

Mutations in PEX10 gene are associated with peroxisome biogenesis disorders of the Zellweger syndrome spectrum (PBD-ZSS).

## Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no cure for PBD-ZSS. Treatment is mainly supportive and aims to manage the symptoms of the disorder. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disorder.

## Drug Response

There is no known drug response associated with PEX10 gene mutations.

## Related Papers

* Author name: Braverman, Nancy
  * [PMID: 12032571]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12032571/))
* Author name: Ebberink, Mirjam S.
  * [PMID: 21990113]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21990113/))


Here are 8 hashtag keywords that summarize the contents of the PEX10 gene information:

1. #PEX10gene
2. #PeroxisomeBiogenesisDisorders
3. #ZellwegerSyndromeSpectrum
4. #MissenseMutations
5. #PeroxisomeBiogenesis
6. #SupportiveTreatment
7. #PrognosisVariability
8. #NoDrugResponse**
**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**