---
title: "BCL3"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene BCL3"
tags: ['BCL3', 'GeneExpression', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'TranscriptionalCoactivator', 'DrugResistance', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'NFkBPathway', 'CancerResearch']
---

# Information about Gene BCL3

### Genetic Position
BCL3 is a gene located on chromosome 19 at the position 19q13.3.

### Pathology
Aberrant expression of BCL3 has been implicated in various diseases, including several cancers and immune-mediated disorders.

### Function
BCL3 encodes a protein that plays a role in the regulation of immune response, cell proliferation, and differentiation. It also functions as a transcriptional co-activator and interacts with various signaling pathways, such as NF-kB, JAK/STAT, and MAPK.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 982
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 602
- Ensembl: ENSG00000160210
- OMIM: 109560
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P20749
- Aliases: BCL4, D19S37

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are various amino acid (AA) mutations reported in the BCL3 gene with corresponding dbSNP IDs. Here are some examples:
- p.Ser56Ile (rs28934606) 
- p.Val70Ala (rs7973269)
- p.Lys173Arg (rs3901899)
- p.His222Asn (rs112201937)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Several somatic SNVs/InDels have been identified in the BCL3 gene with corresponding dbSNP IDs. Here are some examples:
- rs9357260
- rs10418611
- rs13079593
- rs56292630

### Related Disease
The expression level of BCL3 is associated with various diseases, including cancer, autoimmune and inflammatory disorders. Some of the related diseases are:
- Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL)
- Multiple Myeloma (MM)
- Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
- Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD)
- Gastric Cancer
- Lung Cancer

### Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis for diseases associated with BCL3 expression vary depending on specific conditions and stages. Targeting BCL3 function is a potential therapeutic strategy for some diseases.

### Drug Response
BCL3 overexpression may contribute to drug resistance in several cancers, such as MM and lung cancer. Inhibition of BCL3 may enhance the sensitivity of cancer cells to chemotherapy. 

### Related Papers
Some related papers on BCL3 are:
- Subject: BCL3 expression promotes resistance to chemotherapy in acute myeloid leukemia. 
  - Author: Li X, Wang X, et al. 
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/abbs/gmx054) 
- Subject: B-cell lymphoma 3 (BCL3)-induced proliferation of bladder cancer cells through nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) transcriptional activation of cyclin D1. 
  - Author: Wang L, Li X, et al. 
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eururo.2011.08.071)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**