---
title: "UROD"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene UROD"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'UROD', 'HemeBiosynthesis', 'PorphyriaCutaneaTarda', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'Chromosome1', 'Enzyme']
---

# Information about gene UROD

## Genetic position, pathology, and function

- The gene UROD is located on chromosome 1q21.1. UROD is involved in the heme biosynthesis pathway and encodes the enzyme uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase.

## Function for gene

- The UROD gene provides instructions for making the enzyme uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase, which is involved in the heme biosynthesis pathway. The enzyme converts uroporphyrinogen III to coproporphyrinogen III, which is further processed to produce heme, an important component of hemoglobin and other proteins.

## External IDs and location, Aliases

- External IDs for the UROD gene include HGNC:12525, NCBI Entrez Gene:7389, Ensembl:ENSG00000116668, OMIM:613521, and UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P06132.
- The UROD gene is located on chromosome 1 at position 1q21.1.
- Aliases for the UROD gene include UROD1, UD, UROD2, UROD3, and UROD4.

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID for the UROD gene are currently unavailable.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID for the UROD gene are currently unavailable.

## Related disease

- Deficiency in uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (UROD) activity is associated with the rare disease porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT). This disease is characterized by the accumulation of uroporphyrinogen in the liver and skin, leading to photosensitivity and skin damage.

## Treatment and prognosis

- Treatment for porphyria cutanea tarda may involve the use of phlebotomy to remove excess iron and reduce the level of uroporphyrinogen in the liver. Chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine may also be used to reduce symptoms of the disease. Early treatment may help to prevent long-term complications of the disease.

## Drug response

- The UROD gene may play a role in drug response, although specific information about this is currently unavailable.

## Related papers

- **Subject:** Porphyria cutanea tarda
- **Author name:** Anderson KE, Sassa S, Bishop DF, Desnick RJ
- **DOI links to related papers:** [10.1056/NEJM199711133372006](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJM199711133372006))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**