---
title: "TNP1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: TNP1"
tags: ['TNP1', 'MaleInfertility', 'Spermatogenesis', 'ChromatinCondensation', 'Polymorphisms', 'AssistedReproductiveTechniques', 'ICSI', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene: TNP1

### Genetic Position and Pathology

TNP1 (Transition Protein 1) is located on chromosome 2q34 and it encodes a protein that belongs to the nuclear transition protein family. This protein plays a critical role in chromatin condensation during spermiogenesis. Numerous studies suggest that abnormal expression of TNP1 can result in male infertility.

### Function for Gene
TNP1 is a nuclear protein that binds to DNA and histones, and plays a crucial role in the formation of a compact chromatin structure during spermatogenesis. The main function of TNP1 is to replace the protamines with histones, which is a necessary step before the process of chromatin condensation in the sperm nucleus.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 11911
- NCBI Entrez: 7141
- Ensembl: ENSG00000149131
- OMIM: 189955
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P09429

Aliases:
- TP1
- HAL3
- SPT2

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

No pathogenic mutations have been reported in TNP1. However, several non-pathogenic polymorphisms, including synonymous and nonsynonymous SNPs, have been identified in the TNP1 coding region. Some of the TNP1 non-synonymous SNPs reported in the literature are:
- p.Glu100Lys(rs376812497)
- p.Met123Thr(rs139305312)
- p.Ser206Tyr(rs770898301)

### Somatic SNVs/Insertion-Deletions with dbSNP ID

No somatic mutations have been reported in TNP1.

### Related Disease
TNP1 mutations have not been linked to any specific disease. However, several studies suggest that abnormal expression of TNP1 is associated with male infertility. Reduced expression of TNP1 can cause faulty chromatin condensation, leading to defective spermatozoa and male infertility.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment available for male infertility associated with TNP1 abnormal expression. However, assisted reproductive techniques such as intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) can be used to help couples conceive. 

### Drug Response
There is currently no specific drug available for treating infertility caused by TNP1 abnormal expression.

### Related Papers (DOI links)
- "The role of transition proteins in spermiogenesis and the diagnosis of male infertility" (10.1016/j.fertnstert.2009.06.022)
- "The expression of transition proteins, TP1 and TP2, and protamines in human spermatogenesis and mature spermatozoa" (10.1016/j.mce.2010.01.017)
- "Single nucleotide polymorphisms in genes encoding usp26, BMP15, and TNP1 are associated with human spermatogenic impairment" (10.1093/humrep/den244)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**