---
title: "PTPN14"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about PTPN14 gene"
tags: ['PTPN14', 'TumorSuppressor', 'Cancer', 'SignalingPathways', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'DrugResponse', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about PTPN14 gene

## Genetic position 
The PTPN14 gene is located on human chromosome 1 at the position 1p32.2.

## Pathology
PTPN14 has been reported to be involved in the development of a wide range of malignancies including colon, liver, gastric, lung, and breast cancer. 

## Function for gene
PTPN14 encodes a protein tyrosine phosphatase involved in the modulation of multiple signaling pathways. 
The protein has been reported to be involved in regulating the Wnt signaling pathway, thereby affecting the processes of cell differentiation and proliferation.

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
The external IDs for PTPN14 gene and genomic location are as follow:
- HGNC: 9632
- NCBI Entrez: 5783
- Ensembl: ENSG00000160710
- OMIM: 603097
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y2W1 (PTN14_HUMAN)

Aliases:
- PTP-BAS
- PTP36
- PTP-PEST
- PTP23
- PTPD1

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
Several mutations have been detected in the PTPN14 gene that might be cancer-associated. Here are some of the AA mutations and their types taken from the dbSNP database:
- c.1468C>T	(p.Leu490Phe) – missense variant, dbSNP ID: rs1057518809
- c.599C>T	(p.Arg200Ter) – nonsense variant, dbSNP ID: rs777418989
- c.404G>A	(p.Arg135His) – missense variant, dbSNP ID: rs1057518807

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
The dbSNP database also has entries for a few somatic or acquired mutations in PTPN14 gene, which are:
- c.1522G>A	(p.Asp508Asn) – somatic missense variant, dbSNP ID: rs869025721
- c.1178delA	(p.Met394ValfsTer30) – somatic frameshift variant, dbSNP ID: rs1554178221

## Related disease
Mutations in PTPN14 gene have been reported to be associated with various cancers, including colon, liver, stomach, lung, and breast cancer. Studies suggest that PTPN14 acts as a tumor suppressor gene, and its mutations and/or altered expression may contribute to tumor initiation and progression. 

## Treatment and prognosis
As PTPN14 is involved in regulating several signaling pathways related to cancer development and progression, there is growing interest in exploring PTPN14 as a potential therapeutic target. Current research is exploring ways to target PTPN14 to inhibit cancer cell growth and promote apoptosis. Further studies are required to assess the effectiveness and safety of PTPN14-targeted therapy in clinical settings.

## Drug response
Studies have shown that PTPN14 is involved in regulating the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway, which is a target for some of the currently available cancer therapies, such as small molecule inhibitors and monoclonal antibodies. However, further research is needed to develop more specific and effective PTPN14-targeted drugs.

## Related papers
Some of the relevant papers on PTPN14 and its function in cancer are:
- **Subject:** PTPN14 Suppresses Oncogenic KRAS Signaling in Pancreatic Cancer Cells by Regulating YAP Stability
**Author:** Zhou B, Wu Q, Chen G, Zhang S, Tong X, Zhu X, Chen Q, Liang J, Zheng Y, et al.
**DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2019.06.019)

- **Subject:** Loss of expression of phosphatase and tensin homolog or reduced expression of PTEN-binding protein 1 increases the risk of tamoxifen resistance in breast cancer
**Author:** Liu J, Wang X, Huang Y, Liu F, Chen X, Luo R, Huang Q, Gao Y, Niu Y.
**DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00432-017-2489-8)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**