---
title: "MEIS2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene MEIS2 Information"
tags: ['MEIS2', 'TranscriptionalRegulator', 'IntellectualDisability', 'CleftPalate', 'GeneticMutation', 'GenomicLocation', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene MEIS2 Information

## Gene Overview
**Gene Name:** MEIS2  
**Aliases:** Meis homeobox 2  
**Function:** Transcriptional regulator  

## Genomic Location and External IDs
- **Chromosome:** 15  
- **Genomic Coordinates:** chr15: 49,045,584 - 49,157,650  
- **HGNC ID:** 7005  
- **NCBI Entrez Gene ID:** 4211  
- **Ensembl Gene ID:** ENSG00000160951  
- **OMIM ID:** 601739  
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** O14770  

## Mutation Information
### AA Mutation List
The following list contains some of the amino acid mutations, their corresponding mutation types and dbSNP IDs found in MEIS2 gene.
| Amino Acid Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| p.Arg86Cys | Missense | rs267608417 |
| p.Gln413Lys | Missense | rs398122566 |
| p.Leu404del | Deletion | rs367732525 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
There is no record of somatic SNVs/InDels in MEIS2 gene on dbSNP.

## Related Disease
- **Intellectual disability, X-linked 101 (IDDX101)**: MEIS2 mutations have been associated with IDDX101 [(PMID: 30130179)]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30130179/)
- **Cleft palate with or without ankyloglossia, X-linked (CPX)**: MEIS2 gene has been implicated in X-linked cleft palate (CPX) with or without ankyloglossia [(PMID: 29334693)]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29334693/)

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment or cure for MEIS2 mutations. Treatment is based on the specific symptoms present in each patient. Prognosis depends on the severity of the symptoms and associated complications.

## Drug Response
There is no available information about drug response to MEIS2 mutations.

## Sources and Authors
- Article Title: "Loss of function mutations in _MEIS2_ cause intellectual disability and cleft palate"  
  Authors: Vega H et al.  
  Journal: Nat Genet.  
  Year: 2018  
  PMID: [30130179]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30130179/)  
  DOI: [10.1038/s41588-018-0185-0]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41588-018-0185-0)
  
- Article Title: "Whole exome sequencing identified a novel homeobox mutation in a Chinese family with X-linked syndromic cleft palate"  
  Authors: Lu B et al.  
  Journal: BMC Med Genet.  
  Year: 2018  
  PMID: [29334693]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29334693/)  
  DOI: [10.1186/s12881-018-0518-5]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12881-018-0518-5)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**