---
title: "SLC22A2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: SLC22A2"
tags: ['SLC22A2', 'OrganicCationTransporter', 'DrugMetabolism', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'GeneticVariation', 'DrugResponse', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene: SLC22A2

### Genetic Position 
- Chromosome: 6
- Location: p21.1
- Strand: -
- Genomic coordinates: NC_000006.12:g.35574905..35795150

### Pathology 
- SLC22A2 (Solute carrier family 22 member 2) has been associated with several diseases such as hypertension, diabetes, and cancer.

### Function for gene
- SLC22A2 codes for a sodium-independent multipass transmembrane protein which functions as an organic cation transporter and plays a critical role in the elimination of various endogenous and exogenous compounds, including drugs, from the body.

### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- Gene ID: 6582
- HGNC: 11009
- Ensembl: ENSG00000124948
- GenBank: NM\_003058
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H015
- Aliases: OCT2, SLC22A2, Organic Cation Transporter 2

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- rs316019, S189L
- rs72552763, 586X
- rs34143236, H160R
- rs148101998, R61P

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs114613439 (missense mutation)
- rs372996250 (frameshift mutation)
- rs28811772 (missense mutation)
- rs111033233 (splice site mutation)

### Related Disease
- SLC22A2 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of hypertension, diabetes, and cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis 
- The prognosis for diseases associated with SLC22A2-related mutations can vary depending on the specific mutation and the disease. Treatment strategies may include lifestyle changes, medications, and/or surgical interventions.

### Drug Response
- SLC22A2 is involved in the elimination of many commonly used drugs from the body, including metformin, morphine, and cisplatin. Genetic variations in SLC22A2 have been shown to be associated with altered drug efficacy and toxicity.

### Related Papers
- Leabman MK, Huang CC, DeYoung J, Carlson EJ, Taylor TR, de la Cruz M, Johns SJ, Stryke D, Kawamoto M, Urban TJ, et al. (November 2003). "Natural variation in human membrane transporter genes reveals evolutionary and functional constraints". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. 100 (10): 5896–901. 
- Shu Y, Sheardown SA, Brown C, Owen RP, Zhang S, Castro RA, Ianculescu AG, Yue L, Lo JC, Burchard EG, et al. (November 2007). "Effect of genetic variation in the organic cation transporter 1 (OCT1) on metformin action". The Journal of Clinical Investigation. 117 (5): 1422–31. 
- Zhang L, Dresser MJ, Gray AT, Yost SC, Terashita S, Giacomini KM (August 2000). " Cloning and functional expression of a human liver organic cation transporter". Molecular Pharmacology. 58 (2): 337–45.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**