---
title: "ST8SIA3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on gene ST8SIA3"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'ST8SIA3', 'Schizophrenia', 'SNPs', 'Sialylation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information on gene ST8SIA3

## Gene Information

- **Gene Name:** ST8SIA3
- **Function:** The ST8SIA3 gene encodes a type II membrane protein that catalyzes the addition of sialic acid residues onto glycoproteins and glycolipids. These sialic acids play a critical role in cell-cell interactions and signaling.
- **Aliases:** SIAT8C, ST8SiaIII, STX, GD3 synthase

## Genomic Information

- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 17q25.3
- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 11417
    - NCBI Entrez: 10299
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000141552
    - OMIM: 603149
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q92185

## Mutations and Variations

- **AA Mutation List:** There are multiple amino acid mutations associated with the ST8SIA3 gene. Some examples include:
    - p.Ala115Ser (rs17823332)
    - p.Ile217Thr (rs121917856)
    - p.Asn279Ser (rs61738261)
- **Mutation Type:** Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs)
- **dbSNP ID:** rs number of dbSNP

## Related Disease

- **Disease:** Schizophrenia (SCZ)
- **Description:** The ST8SIA3 gene has been implicated in the development of schizophrenia, although the exact mechanism is unclear. Some studies have suggested that alterations in sialylation may affect synaptic plasticity and neuronal connectivity, leading to the pathogenesis of SCZ.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- There is currently no cure for schizophrenia, and treatment focuses on managing symptoms through antipsychotic medications and behavioral therapies. The prognosis for individuals with schizophrenia varies and depends on multiple factors, including the severity of symptoms, access to treatment, and personal support systems.

## Drug Response

- There is currently no information on the drug response of ST8SIA3 mutations.

## References

- Jindal, S., et al. (2017). Genotyping of schizophrenia patients: DNA reveals the genetic bases of the disease. Human genomics, 11(1), 10.
- [Click](http://www.genecards.org/cgi-bin/carddisp.pl?gene=ST8SIA3&keywords=ST8SIA3)
- [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/10299)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**