---
title: "CSF3R"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene CSF3R"
tags: ['CSF3R', 'BloodDisorders', 'MyeloidCells', 'Mutations', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchArticles']
---

# Information about Gene CSF3R

## Genetic Position

CSF3R gene is located on chromosome 1 at the position q21.2.

## Pathology and Function

The CSF3R gene provides instructions for making a protein called colony-stimulating factor 3 receptor (CSF3R). The protein is found on the surface of myeloid cells, which are blood cells that contribute to the body's immune system. The CSF3R protein plays a crucial role in regulating the production, differentiation, and function of myeloid cells.

Mutations in the CSF3R gene have been associated with various types of blood disorders, including congenital neutropenia and acute myeloid leukemia. These mutations can cause the CSF3R protein to be overactive, leading to excessive production of myeloid cells and impaired immune function.

## Gene Information
- Function: Colony-stimulating factor 3 receptor
- External IDs:
  - HGNC: 2437
  - NCBI Entrez: 1441
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000136384
  - OMIM: 138971
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P40238
- Aliases: CD114, GCSFR

## Mutations
- AA mutation list:
  - T618I
  - T618A
  - T618N
  - T615A
  - S783N
- Mutation type: Missense
- dbSNP IDs: rs139292760, rs146561691, rs587776861, rs139292759, rs374348719

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- dbSNP IDs:
  - rs774092734
  - rs4828747
  - rs200086522
  - rs148490008

## Related Disease
Mutations in the CSF3R gene have been associated with various types of blood disorders, including:
- Congenital neutropenia
- Acute myeloid leukemia
- Chronic neutrophilic leukemia
- Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for blood disorders caused by CSF3R mutations may include bone marrow transplantation, chemotherapy, and/or targeted therapy. Prognosis varies depending on the specific disorder and severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response
Patients with CSF3R mutations may respond differently to certain drugs used to treat blood disorders, including granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) and tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs).

## Related Articles
- Subject: Congenital Neutropenia
- Author: Dale DC
- DOI: 10.1007/s11899-011-0092-4
- Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11899-011-0092-4)

- Subject: CSF3R Mutations in Chronic Neutrophilic Leukemia
- Author: Maxson JE, Tyner JW
- DOI: 10.1177/1535370211427438
- Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1177/1535370211427438)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**