---
title: "PEX19"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PEX19"
tags: ['PEX19', 'PeroxisomalBiogenesis', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'FrameshiftMutation', 'PeroxisomeBiogenesisDisorder', 'ZellwegerSyndrome', 'NeonatalAdrenoleukodystrophy']
---

# Information about Gene PEX19

## Genomic Position and Aliases
- Gene Name: PEX19 peroxisomal biogenesis factor 19
- Chromosome: 1
- Start Position: 228872373 bp
- End Position: 228995701 bp
- Strand: Plus
- Alias:  ZWS 
- Genomic Location: 1p36.23

## Function of the Gene
PEX19 gene encodes a critical cytosolic chaperone functioning as a critical factor in peroxisomal protein importing and membrane organization. It acts as a peroxin-3 (PEX3) receptor to recruit newly synthesized PEX3 to the peroxisomal membrane for further peroxisomal biogenesis. 

## External IDs and Links
- HGNC ID: 8806
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 5824
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000129757
- OMIM ID: 601757
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: O00623

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several amino acid mutations associated with the PEX19 gene, with various mutation types such as missense, nonsense, frameshift, and small deletions. Here are a few examples: 
- Leu124fs (Frameshift) with dbSNP ID: rs538563137
- Lys157Ter (Nonsense) with dbSNP ID: rs869312178
- Ala138Glu (Missense) with dbSNP ID: rs121909191

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic mutations associated with PEX19 gene, a few of them are:

|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|------------|--------|
|Missense|rs796702485|
|Frameshift|rs1057518815|
|Small Deletion|rs1194784294|

## Related Disease
Abnormalities in the peroxisomal biogenesis process related to the PEX19 gene are associated with various diseases, such as:
- Zellweger Syndrome
- Peroxisome Biogenesis Disorder
- Neonatal Adrenoleukodystrophy

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no specific treatment available for PEX19 associated disease. However, early detection and prompt management can improve survival,
and the prognosis of individuals suffering from peroxisomal disorders related to PEX19 depends upon the severity of their symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is no drug available specifically targeting PEX19 gene mutations. However, new drug development targeting peroxisomal biogenesis can benefit individuals with peroxisomal disorders in the future.

## References
1. Braverman N, Zhang R, Chen L, Nimmo G, Scheper S, Tran T, Chaudhury R, Moser A, Steinberg S, Overmars H, Batista da Silva L, Camacho J, Steel G, Obie C, Summerhayes R, Darlington G, Harmon J, Hertzberg R, Wan L, Tekleab H, Maratha A, Thomas J, van Roermund C, Wanders R (2017) A Pex19p-dependent docking mechanism for Pex10p onto the peroxisomal membrane. Nat Commun 8:14692 doi: 10.1038/ncomms14692
2. Ebberink MS, Koster J, Visser G, Schippers E, Waterham HR, Wanders RJ (2012). A novel defect of peroxisome division due to a homozygous non-sense mutation in the PEX11β gene. J Med Genet 49(4):258–260. doi: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2011-100492
3. Waterham HR, Ebberink MS (2012) Genetics and molecular basis of human peroxisome biogenesis disorders. Biochim Biophys Acta - Mol Cell Res 1822(9):1430–1441. doi: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2012.04.010.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**