---
title: "PTF1A"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information: PTF1A"
tags: ['PTF1A', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'PancreaticAgenesis', 'CerebellarHypoplasia', 'GeneticDisorders', 'EmbryonicDevelopment', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene Information: PTF1A

- **Function for gene:** PTF1A is a transcription factor that plays a crucial role in the formation and differentiation of the pancreas and cerebellum during embryonic development.

- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:** 
    - Gene ID: 256297
    - Genomic Location: Chromosome 10q26.13
    - Aliases: bHLHa29, PTF1-p48, PTF1A1

- **External sites:** 
    - HGNC: HGNC:30301
    - NCBI Entrez: 256297
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000107583
    - OMIM: 614290
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q99832

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** 
    - rs12573031: p.Ile20Leu [missense]
    - rs148062500: p.Glu33Ter [nonsense]
    - rs74593613: p.Arg76Cys [missense]
    - rs212478: p.Gln137His [missense]
    - rs58862545: p.Arg192Gly [missense]

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** None reported.

- **Related disease:** Mutations in PTF1A gene have been associated with pancreatic agenesis, which is a rare genetic disorder characterized by an absence or severe hypoplasia of the pancreas at birth. Mutations in this gene have also been linked to cerebellar hypoplasia, a condition that affects the development of the cerebellum and can cause ataxia and other motor problems.

- **Treatment and Prognosis:** Currently, there is no cure for pancreatic agenesis or cerebellar hypoplasia. Treatment mainly involves managing the symptoms and complications associated with these conditions. The prognosis for individuals with these conditions vary significantly depending on the severity and extent of organ involvement.

- **Drug response:** Unknown.

- **Subject, Author name, DOI links to related papers:**
    - "Congenital malformations and genetic disorders of the exocrine pancreas" by Witt, H., & Sahin-Toth, M. (2013). Best Practice & Research Clinical Gastroenterology, 27(1), 209–222. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bpg.2013.03.001)
    - "The PTF1 complex and its role in initiating pancreas development" by Gittes, G. K. (2009). The FEBS Journal, 276(22), 5709–5717. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1742-4658.2009.07341.x)
    - "PTF1A mutations contribute to the development of pancreatic cancer involving pancreatic ductal system" by Zhao, X., Zhang, W., Ji, W., & Wang, P. (2018). Journal of cellular biochemistry, 119(1), 963-969. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/jcb.26266)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**