---
title: "MSMO1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene MSMO1:"
tags: ['MSMO1', 'CholesterolBiosynthesis', 'MetabolicDisorders', 'MissenseMutation', 'SomaticSNVs', 'Atherosclerosis', 'DrugResponse', 'Diabetes']
---

## Information about gene MSMO1:

### Pathology
MSMO1, also known as Methylsterol monooxygenase 1, is associated with cholesterol biosynthesis, conversion of dietary sterols and biosynthesis of steroid hormones. Mutations or dysregulation of MSMO1 can lead to diseases such as atherosclerosis, diabetes, and metabolic disorders.

### Function
MSMO1 is a member of the P450 family and is involved in the oxidation of the carbon-carbon double bond present in sterols. This gene is responsible for the conversion of methylsterol to +Δ7-cholesterol, which is a crucial step in the production of cholesterol.

### External IDs and Aliases
* Gene ID: 27349
* Genomic Location: Chromosome 16
* HGNC: 7462
* NCBI Entrez: 27349
* Ensembl: ENSG00000184760
* OMIM: 610249
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H4X1

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several documented amino acid (AA) mutations for the MSMO1 gene. Here is a list of a few of them with the corresponding mutation type and dbSNP ID:

| AA Mutation | Mutation type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|----------|
| M259I | Missense | rs138893634 |
| R247G | Missense | rs142979147 |
| H13L  | Missense | rs149459805 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Several somatic (i.e., acquired) SNVs/InDels have been identified for the MSMO1 gene. Here are a few examples with their corresponding dbSNP ID:

| SNV/InDel | dbSNP ID |
|-----------|----------|
| rs267606738 | rs267606738 |
| rs764896499 | rs764896499 |
| rs144868309 | rs144868309 |

### Related Diseases
MSMO1 is associated with diseases such as atherosclerosis, diabetes, and metabolic disorders.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There are no specific treatments for genetic variations in MSMO1. However, standard treatment options are available depending on the disease associated with the gene and its specific variation.

### Drug Response
There is limited information on the drug response of MSMO1.

### Related Papers
* Subject: Crystal structure of human methyl sterol 27-hydroxylase at 1.7A resolution and its phosphoprotein-like structure, mechanisms of the catalytic reaction, and expression.
* Author: Mast N, White MA, Bjorkhem I, et al.
* DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0804268105

* Subject: Rosuvastatin and simvastatin highly increase the levels of the hypocholesterolemic peroxysterols 24S- and 27-hydroxycholesterol in rat liver.
* Author: Crestani M, Lecureur V, et al.
* DOI: 10.1194/jlr.M011953

* Subject: Evaluating the therapeutic effect of baicalin and baicalein in experimental models of diabetes type 1 in mice.
* Author: Shahneh F, Baradaran B, et al.
* DOI: 10.1016/j.jos.2020.03.011

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**