---
title: "ILDR1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene ILDR1 "
tags: ['ILDR1', 'IntercellularAdhesion', 'FamilialExudativeVitreoretinopathy', 'RetinalAngiogenesis', 'VisionLoss', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

## Information about gene ILDR1 

### Genetic Position
The human gene ILDR1 (Immunoglobulin-Like Domain Containing Receptor 1) is located on chromosome 3p21.31 and spans 24,990 base pairs.

### Pathology and Function
ILDR1 gene encodes a transmembrane protein involved in intercellular adhesion in epithelial cells and is responsible for maintaining the integrity of the epithelial barrier. It has been shown to be expressed in the inner ear, retinas, and photoreceptors. A mutation in ILDR1 can cause familial exudative vitreoretinopathy, which is characterized by abnormal retinal angiogenesis and exudation, ultimately leading to vision loss.   

### Gene and Genomic location, Aliases 
- Gene ID: 80708
- Genomic location: 3p21.31
- Aliases: C3orf10, DFNB42, FLJ35731, ILDR1, UNQ2853

### External IDs
- HGNC: HGNC:24414
- NCBI Entrez: 80708
- Ensembl: ENSG00000186467
- OMIM: 610495
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8IWU1

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.230C>T (p.Pro77Ser) - rs144296470
- c.383C>G (p.Ala128Gly) - rs142623921
- c.1252C>T (p.Arg418Cys) - rs199699604

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no somatic mutations of ILDR1 reported in dbSNP or COSMIC databases.

### Related disease
Mutation in ILDR1 gene is known to cause familial exudative vitreoretinopathy, which is an inherited disorder characterized by abnormal retinal angiogenesis and exudation, leading to vision loss. 

### Treatment and prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for familial exudative vitreoretinopathy caused by ILDR1 mutations. Treatment plans often involve surgery, laser therapy, or medications such as anti-VEGF to manage the symptoms.

### Drug response
There is currently no known drug that specifically targets ILDR1 for familial exudative vitreoretinopathy.

### Related papers
- Subject: Identification and characterization of ILDR1, a novel inner ear inner pillar cell protein.
- Author name: Kawashima Y, Géléoc GS, Kurima K, Labay V, Lelli A, Asai Y, Makishima T, Wu DK, Della Santina CC, Holt JR, Griffith AJ.
- DOI link: 10.1016/j.abb.2009.02.005 

- Subject: A mutation in a novel ATP-dependent Lon protease gene in a kindred with mild mental retardation.
- Author name: N'Guyen L, Labelle Y, Roberge-Goyette G, Chénier S, Hébert BJ, Dicaire MJ, Gagné JD, Vanasse C, Brustein E, Brais B.
- DOI link: 10.1371/journal.pone.0142266

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**