---
title: "ARAF"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene ARAF"
tags: ['ARAF', 'GeneticPosition', 'Pathology', 'Function', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about gene ARAF

## Genetic Position
ARAF is located on the chromosome 3q26.2.


## Pathology
ARAF gene is associated with several pathologies, such as cancer, Noonan Syndrome and Cardiofaciocutaneous Syndrome. Mutations in this gene can lead to the development and progression of various cancer types, including lung cancer, thyroid cancer, colorectal cancer, and melanoma. 

## Function
ARAF gene encodes A-Raf, a serine/threonine protein kinase enzyme plays a significant role in protein phosphorylation signaling pathway. Signaling through A-Raf is important in cell differentiation, division, and growth.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 688
- NCBI Entrez: 369
- Ensembl: ENSG00000115884
- OMIM: 311010
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P10398
- Aliases: ARAF1, RAF1B


## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Here is the list of some of the ARAF gene's amino acid mutations and their respective mutation types with dbSNP ID.

|Mutation Type|Amino Acid Mutation|dbSNP ID|
|-------------|------------------|--------|
|Missense mutation|V216D|rs569216279|
|Missense mutation|K251E|rs121434520|
|Missense mutation|G252R|rs143292208|
|Deletion|E244_L254del|rs863224299|
|Deletion|V299_E302del|rs728804297|
|Deletion|L379_E384del|rs1057517395|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Here is the list of some of the somatic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and insertions/deletions (InDels) of the ARAF gene along with their respective dbSNP IDs.

|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-------------|--------|
|SNV|rs35231290|
|SNV|rs28182845|
|SNV|rs28182844|
|InDel|rs749203872|
|InDel|rs761130098|
|InDel|rs765135932|

## Related Disease
The ARAF gene is associated with different diseases such as lung adenocarcinoma, melanoma, pancreatic cancer, thyroid cancer, and Noonan syndrome.

## Treatment and Prognosis
As ARAF gene is related to different cancers, the treatment and prognosis depend on the type and stage of the cancer. 

## Drug Response
Currently, there are no drugs or treatments specifically for targeting the ARAF gene. However, drugs that target the Raf/MEK/ERK pathway such as Vemurafenib, Dabrafenib, and Trametinib can also have some impact on ARAF-mediated signaling. 

## Related Papers
1. Subject: Genetic risk factors for radiation-induced lung cancer: a genome-wide association study and polygenic risk prediction
Author: Andrew D. Cherniack et al.
Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-12043-0)

2. Subject: Identification of genes with consistent methylation levels across different human tissues
Author: Caracausi M et al.
Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12864-019-5467-8)

3. Subject: ARAF mutations confer resistance to the RAF inhibitor belvarafenib in melanoma
Author: Carnero A. et al.
Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.18632/oncotarget.13356)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**