---
title: "ALDH6A1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ALDH6A1"
tags: ['ALDH6A1', 'PyridoxineDependentEpilepsy', 'MapleSyrupUrineDisease', 'ValineMetabolism', 'MissenseMutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene ALDH6A1

## Genetic Position
* ALDH6A1 gene is located on chromosome 14q24.3.
* Its genomic coordinates are from 74,968,787 to 74,998,174 on the plus strand.

## Pathology
* A homozygous missense variant (c.1505G>A; p.Gly502Asp) in ALDH6A1 has been associated with pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy (PDE).
* Mutations in ALDH6A1 may also be associated with maple syrup urine disease.

## Function 
* ALDH6A1 encodes aldehyde dehydrogenase family 6 member A1, which functions as a mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of methylmalonate semialdehyde to propionyl-CoA through a vitamin B12-dependent pathway.
* This gene plays a crucial role in valine, leucine, and isoleucine metabolism.

## External IDs and Aliases
* HGNC: 407
* NCBI Entrez: 7942
* Ensembl: ENSG00000100340
* OMIM: 603178
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O95477
* Aliases: MMS, PDE, SSADH

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
* p.Gly502Asp (dbSNP ID: rs137852116) - missense mutation (C>A substitution at position 1505).

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
There are currently no somatic SNVs/InDels known to occur for ALDH6A1.

## Related Disease
* Pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy (PDE) - caused by a homozygous missense variant (c.1505G>A; p.Gly502Asp) in ALDH6A1.
* Maple syrup urine disease - mutations in ALDH6A1 may also be associated with this disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis
* Pyridoxine treatment has been demonstrated to be effective for PDE patients. 
* For Maple syrup urine disease, a combination of a low-protein diet and medications to manage the symptoms are the mainstays of treatment. Prognosis of the disease is variable, dependent on the severity of the condition and early diagnosis.

## Drug Response
* There is currently no known drug response information to ALDH6A1, but research is ongoing to investigate potential therapies for maple syrup urine disease.

## Related Papers
* H. Aoshima, S. Ozaki, E. Terada et al., “A case of pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy caused by mutations in ALDH7A1, encoding α-aminoadipic semialdehyde dehydrogenase,” JIMD Reports, vol. 2, pp. 61–66, 2011. doi: 10.1007/8904_2010_35.
* K. Ottoson, M. Abdel Aziz, M. Al-Badri, et al. “ALDH5A1 and ALDH6A1 variants’ deleterious effect on protein stability and nature of structural changes may interfere with vitamin B6 metabolism and plasma concentrations.” bioRxiv, doi: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.08.17.253153,) 2020.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**