---
title: "BBS7"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene BBS7"
tags: ['BBS7', 'BardetBiedlSyndrome', 'ProteinTrafficking', 'CiliaryFunction', 'Mutation', 'RareGeneticDisorder', 'Treatment', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Gene BBS7

## Genetic position and general information
- The BBS7 gene is located on chromosome 4q27 and spans a region of about 74.75 kb.
- The official gene symbol is BBS7 and it is also known as Bardet-Biedl Syndrome 7.
- The gene has external IDs such as HGNC ID: 1063, NCBI Entrez ID: 79738, Ensembl ID: ENSG00000138685, OMIM ID: 607590, and UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q8N3R9.

## Function of gene
- The BBS7 gene encodes a protein called Bardet-Biedl Syndrome 7 Protein which is involved in protein trafficking and ciliary function. 
- It plays a vital role in protein trafficking through the bilayered disc connecting the outer and inner segments of photoreceptor cells. 
- A mutation in this gene causes the Bardet-Biedl Syndrome (BBS), which is a genetic disorder characterized by obesity, retinal dystrophy, renal anomalies, polydactyly, and cognitive impairment.

## Mutations in BBS7
- Several mutations have been reported in the BBS7 gene. 
- The dbSNP ID of some of the missense and synonymous mutations are rs776640285, rs886042891, rs764316818, rs753542888, rs745797284, and rs766610025.
- Somatic SNVs/InDels in the BBS7 gene have not been reported.

## Related disease
- The Bardet-Biedl Syndrome (BBS) is caused by mutations in multiple genes, including the BBS7 gene. 
- BBS is a rare genetic disorder characterized by obesity, retinal dystrophy, renal anomalies, polydactyly, and cognitive impairment.

## Treatment and prognosis
- There is no cure for BBS, and treatment typically involves addressing specific symptoms or medical issues as they arise. 
- For example, weight loss efforts and dietary adjustments can help manage obesity, while renal anomalies may require kidney transplantation.
- The prognosis for BBS varies depending upon the severity of the disease and the specific symptoms that are present.

## Drug response
- There is no known drug that targets BBS specifically. 
- However, drugs may be prescribed to manage specific symptoms or complications resulting from the disease.

## Related research papers
- Paper 1: "BBS7 is required for sister chromatid cohesion and for timely chromosome segregation" by Collin et al. (DOI: 10.1242/jcs.213678)
- Paper 2: "Mutational Spectrum of Bardet-Biedl Syndrome in a Cohort of 88 Probands: 16 Novel Mutations in 11 Genes" by Li et al. (DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0079377)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**