---
title: "CACNA2D4"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['CACNA2D4', 'VoltageDependentCalciumChannels', 'Epilepsy', 'BipolarDisorder', 'MissenseMutation', 'SomaticSNVs', 'NeurotransmitterRelease', 'SynapticPlasticity']
---

## Gene Information

**Gene Symbol:** CACNA2D4

**Pathology:** This gene has been associated with various diseases such as epilepsy and bipolar disorder.

**Function:** This gene encodes for the alpha-2/delta-4 subunit of voltage-dependent calcium channels, which are involved in neurotransmitter release and synaptic plasticity.

**External IDs:**

- HGNC: 1398
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 10212
- Ensembl: ENSG00000122585
- OMIM: 604145
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N5S8

**Aliases:** CACHD2, CACNAD2

**AA Mutation List:**

Several AA mutations have been identified in this gene, some of which are listed below along with their mutation type and dbSNP ID:

- K998E: Missense mutation; rs587784848
- P994R: Missense mutation; rs764727194
- T201I: Missense mutation; rs780199609
- Q848H: Missense mutation; rs756520345

**Somatic SNVs/InDels:**

Multiple somatic SNVs and InDels have been identified in this gene, some of which are listed below along with their dbSNP ID:

- rs184410241
- rs148033553
- rs147369538
- rs142942437

**Related Disease:** This gene has been associated with various diseases such as epilepsy and bipolar disorder.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** The treatment and prognosis for diseases associated with this gene vary and depend on the specific disease and its severity.

**Drug Response:** There is currently no clear information available regarding drug response for conditions associated with mutations in this gene.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Voltage-gated calcium channel subunit alpha-2/delta-4 subunit gene CACNA2D4 is associated with bipolar disorder in patients from Eastern Han Chinese descent. 
- Author: Yanguo Hong, Jie Zhang, et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12888-014-0349-3)

- Subject: Copy number variation analysis in bipolar disorder and schizophrenia reveals aberrant expression of genes involved in synaptic signaling.
- Author: Malin M. Jonsson, Szabolcs Szelinger, et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopsych.2012.08.011)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**