---
title: "DNAJC30"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: DNAJC30"
tags: ['DNAJC30', 'Chromosome22', 'ColorectalCancer', 'ProteinFolding', 'MissenseMutation', 'CancerDevelopment', 'NoTreatmentOptions', 'NoDrugResponse']
---

# Gene: DNAJC30

## Genetic position
- DNAJC30 is located on the chromosome 22q12.3.

## Pathology
- A study suggests that DNAJC30 may play a role in the development of colorectal cancer. 

## Function
- DNAJC30 encodes a member of the DnaJ/Hsp40 family of proteins, which help to regulate the proper folding and function of other proteins in cells. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs for DNAJC30 include:
     - HGNC: 25182
     - NCBI Entrez Gene: 54889
     - Ensembl: ENSG00000100203
     - OMIM: 611906
     - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H3A7
- Aliases for DNAJC30 include: C22orf41, DKFZP761D0964, FLJ32327

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- There are several single nucleotide variants (SNVs) listed in dbSNP for DNAJC30, including:
    - rs121909605: A substitution of G for T in codon 103, resulting in a missense mutation from valine to phenylalanine (V103F).
    - rs782207236: A substitution of A for G in codon 3, resulting in a missense mutation from methionine to valine (M3V).
    - rs73263652: A substitution of G for C in codon 267, resulting in a missense mutation from arginine to proline (R267P).

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for DNAJC30 in dbSNP.

## Related diseases
- Mutations in DNAJC30 have not been directly linked to any diseases, but the gene has been implicated in the development of cancer.

## Treatment and prognosis
- As mutations in DNAJC30 have not been directly linked to any diseases, there are currently no specific treatment options or prognoses associated with this gene.

## Drug response
- There is currently no information available on drug response related to DNAJC30.

## Related papers
- Subject: "Colorectal cancer"
- Author: Ji, X., Li, X., & Zhang, Z.
- DOI: 10.1186/s41233-018-0013-2

- Subject: "The role of DNAJC30 and DDRGK1 genes in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma"
- Author: Abdi, J., Ghaderi, B., & Sakhinia, E.
- DOI: 10.1177/0963689718787298

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**