---
title: "ADARB1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene ADARB1"
tags: ['ADARB1', 'RNAediting', 'disease', 'mutation', 'therapy', 'drugresponse', 'genetics', 'biologicalfunction']
---

## Gene ADARB1
- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 21q22.3
- **Pathology:** ADAR proteins play a role in RNA editing, and mutations or dysfunction of the ADARB1 gene have been associated with many diseases such as cancer, neurological disorders, and metabolic disease.
- **Function for Gene:** ADARB1 gene encodes an enzyme called Adenosine Deaminase Acting on RNA (ADAR1) which catalyzes the deamination of adenosine to inosine in double-stranded RNA. This RNA editing process regulates various biological functions in humans.
- **External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location and Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 215
    - NCBI Entrez: 103
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000156263
    - OMIM: 146920
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P55265
    - Aliases: ADAR2, DRADA2, EIEE6, IFI-4, K88DSRBP
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**
    - p.Gly150Arg (rs568096431)
    - p.Glu488Gln (rs142027956)
    - p.Ser192Asn (rs55730542)
    - Mutation Type: Non-Synonymous SNPs
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - rs749579088
    - rs150711303
    - rs369476756
    - Mutation Type: Missense SNVs
- **Related Disease:** 
    - Hepatitis C Virus Infection
    - Breast Cancer, Colorectal Carcinoma, Head and Neck Cancer, Leukemia
    - AIDS Dementia Complex, Autism Spectrum Disorder, Schizophrenia
- **Treatment and Prognosis:** The mutation or dysfunction of this gene has been associated with various diseases which require specific treatments.
- **Drug Response:** ADARB1 is being studied as a potential therapeutic target for various diseases, and drug response is under research.
- **Subject, Author Name, DOI links to related papers:**

1. **Subject:** ADAR1-Mediated RNA Editing Promotes MET and iPSC Reprogramming Efficiency.
   **Author Name:** Jianlong Wang, Deyong Xiao, Xiao-Qing Zhang, Yingying Shi, et al.
   **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.stem.2015.03.009)

2. **Subject:** The Role of A-to-I RNA Editing in Cancer Development.
   **Author Name:** Chan Ho Jeon, Sun Shim Choi
   **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/cancers13163987)

3. **Subject:** Molecular Mechanisms Involved in ADAR1-Edited RNAs and Their Functional Roles in Human Cells.
   **Author Name:** Pallavi Khanna, Emily D Navarro, Jack D Keene
   **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/wrna.1439)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**