---
title: "C4B"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene C4B"
tags: ['GeneC4B', 'ComplementSystem', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'ImmunosuppressiveDrugs', 'Infections', 'MissenseVariant', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene C4B

## Basic Information
- Function: Gene C4B encodes a component of the complement system, which is involved in the immune response and inflammation. It plays a key role in the clearance of immune complexes, apoptotic cells, and microbes, as well as in the modulation of adaptive immunity. 

- External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:
    - Gene ID: 721
    - Genomic location: Chromosome 6, 31.2–31.1 Mb
    - Aliases: C4B_2, CPAMD3, C4BPA

- External sites: 
    - HGNC: 1526
    - NCBI Entrez: 720
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000233136
    - OMIM: 120810
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P0C0L4

## Mutation Information
- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
    - p.Arg240Gly - missense variant - dbSNP ID: rs4151667
    - p.Val147Met - missense variant - dbSNP ID: rs1143679

- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: Currently, there is no reported information about somatic SNVs/InDels in Gene C4B.

## Related Disease
- Gene C4B is associated with various autoimmune diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and multiple sclerosis. Deficiencies or abnormalities in Gene C4B are also associated with increased susceptibility to infections. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no cure for autoimmune diseases, and treatment primarily involves the use of immunosuppressive drugs to reduce inflammation and slow disease progression. However, the prognosis for patients with autoimmune diseases varies depending on the specific disease and the severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response
- There is limited information about drug response relating to Gene C4B.

## References
- Okada Y, et al. Genetics of rheumatoid arthritis contributes to biology and drug discovery. Nature 2014; 506: 376–81. doi: 10.1038/nature12873
- Braga Neto MB, et al. The Role of Complement C4 Gene Copy Number Variation in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. Poster presented at the American Society of Human Genetics 2012 Annual Meeting, San Francisco, California, U.S.A. Abstract #1053F.
- Ali YM, et al. Inherited deficiency of C4 in the mouse impairs antibody responses and host resistance to Streptococcus pneumoniae. J Immunol. 2012 Jan 15;188(2):839-47. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1102299.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**