---
title: "CIITA"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: CIITA"
tags: ['CIITA', 'MHCclassII', 'transcriptionalactivator', 'immunedeficiency', 'somaticvariants', 'autoimmunediseases', 'barelymphocytesyndrome', 'geneticdisorders']
---

# Gene: CIITA

- Function: CIITA (Class II Major Histocompatibility Complex Transactivator) gene encodes a transcriptional activator essential for the expression of Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) class II genes, which are involved in antigen presentation to immune cells. CIITA acts as a transcriptional regulator by interacting with other transcription factors and chromatin-remodeling proteins to increase the expression of MHC class II genes.
 
- External IDs: 
  - Gene ID: 4261
  - Genomic location: Chromosome 16 (16p13.13)
  - Aliases: MHC2TA, C2TA, LCRG1

- External Sites: 
  - HGNC: HGNC:7203
  - NCBI Entrez: 4261
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000140987
  - OMIM: 600005
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P33076

- AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID:
  - No commonly occurring AA mutations have been reported in CIITA gene, and dbSNP does not list any disease-related mutations.

- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
  - There are a few known somatic variants, including SNVs (Single nucleotide variants) and InDels (Insertions/Deletions), which can occur in CIITA gene. These variants have been reported in various cancer types, including melanoma and breast cancer. Some of the dbSNP IDs for these somatic variants are rs1042834, rs187181240, rs565692731, and rs369843447.

- Related Disease:
  - Mutations or dysregulation of the CIITA gene have been associated with a variety of immune-related disorders, such as hereditary MHC class II deficiency, autoimmune diseases, and susceptibility to infections. Specifically, mutations in the CIITA gene have been reported in patients with bare lymphocyte syndrome (BLS), a rare immunodeficiency disorder characterized by the absence of MHC class II expression.

- Treatment and Prognosis:
  - Currently, there is no specific treatment available for CIITA gene-related disorders. However, treatment may be aimed at addressing the symptoms and complications of the associated conditions. The prognosis is dependent on the specific disorder and the severity of the abnormalities.

- Drug Response:
  - There are currently no drugs targeted specifically to the CIITA gene or related disorders.

- Subject, Author Name, DOI links to Related Papers:
  - Subject: CIITA gene and genetic disorders related to MHC class II expression
  - Author Name: Reith, Walter, et al.
  - DOI Links: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41577-020-00401-3)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**