---
title: "HOXB6"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for HOXB6"
tags: ['GeneHOXB6', 'HomeoboxFamily', 'EmbryonicDevelopment', 'AxialSkeleton', 'LimbDevelopment', 'NoDiseaseAssociation', 'NoClinicalTreatment', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene Information for HOXB6

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Position:** Chromosome 17q21.32
- **Pathology:** N/A
- **Function:** HOXB6 belongs to the homeobox family of genes, which are responsible for regulating embryonic development and cellular differentiation. HOXB6 specifically plays a role in the development and patterning of the axial skeleton, as well as limb development.

## External IDs and Aliases
- **HGNC:** 5095
- **NCBI Entrez Gene:** 3216
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000135903
- **OMIM:** 142967
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** P09629
- **Aliases:** HOX3, HOX3C, HOXA9, HOX1E

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No AA mutations found in HOXB6 gene with dbSNP ID.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No reported somatic SNVs/InDels found in HOXB6 gene with dbSNP ID.

## Related Diseases
- No direct association with diseases found for HOXB6.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- No clinical treatments reported for HOXB6 as it does not directly associate with diseases.

## Drug Response
- No drug response information reported for HOXB6.

## Related Papers
- No specific papers found, but here are some general papers about HOXB6:
  - Delpretti et al., 2018. [The HOXB6 homeoprotein regulates the expression of key genes including ERBB2 in breast cancer cells]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29858568/)
  - Grossi et al., 2017. [HOXB6 overexpression in murine bone marrow immortalizes a myelomonocytic precursor while affecting differentiation and proliferation of committed cells]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28673224/)
  - Acampora et al., 1989. [The human HOX gene family]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC298671/?page=1)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**