---
title: "NKX2 6"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene NKX2-6"
tags: ['GeneNKX2-6', 'HeartDevelopment', 'HeartDefects', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'MissenseMutation', 'SomaticVariants', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene NKX2-6

## Information

NKX2-6 is a gene that is located on chromosome 8 (8q21.3). It encodes a transcription factor protein that is involved in the development of the heart, specifically the formation of the ventricles and valve. 

Abnormalities in the NKX2-6 gene have been associated with various heart defects and disorders, such as atrial septal defects and conotruncal defects. 

## Function

The NKX2-6 protein is involved in the regulation of gene expression during heart development. It plays a critical role in the differentiation and patterning of the heart, specifically in the formation of the ventricles and valve. 

## External IDs

- HGNC: 7807
- NCBI Entrez: 91117
- Ensembl: ENSG00000178394
- OMIM: 605479
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y4Q5

## AA mutation list and mutation type

- rs104893869: p.Thr51Met (missense)
- rs58980768: p.Thr147Met (missense)
- rs767492316: p.Val270Gly (missense)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

- rs183254951: c.298+30C>A (splice donor)
- rs757885478: c.632-14G>T (splice acceptor)
- rs796253930: c.172_173delAG (frameshift)
- rs797044101: c.969_976delGAAGTGGC (frameshift)

## Related disease

Abnormalities in NKX2-6 have been associated with several heart defects and disorders, such as:

- Atrial septal defects 
- Conotruncal defects 

## Treatment and prognosis

Treatment for heart defects caused by abnormalities in NKX2-6 may include medications and surgery, depending on the severity of the condition. In general, the prognosis for individuals with these defects is good with appropriate treatment.

## Drug response

Currently, there is no known drug or treatment specifically for abnormalities in the NKX2-6 gene. 

## Related papers

- Subject: Epigenetic Silencing of NKX2-6 Promotes Gastric Cancer Cell Growth
- Author: Park J.Y.
- DOI link: <[Click](https://doi.org/10.4048/jbc.2019.22.e45>)

- Subject: Novel NKX2.6 variant associated with increased risk of atrial septal defects
- Author: Pashaei S.
- DOI link: <[Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/uog.17519>)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**