---
title: "GALR1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information on GALR1"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'GALR1', 'Neuropeptide', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'MissenseMutation', 'AlzheimersDisease', 'Epilepsy', 'Depression']
---

# Genetic Information on GALR1
## Gene background
- The GALR1 gene is located on chromosome 18 at the position 18q23.3 and is composed of 2 exons encoding a protein of 364 amino acids.
- It is highly expressed in the central nervous system and is involved in the regulation of several physiological processes such as food intake, pain perception, and anxiety.
- GALR1 functions as a receptor for the neuropeptide galanin, which is involved in modulating a range of cellular responses throughout the nervous system, including inhibiting the release of neurotransmitters.
- GALR1 has been shown to be associated with several diseases and medical conditions such as epilepsy, depression, and Alzheimer's disease.

## Identification and Alternative Names
### External IDs
- HGNC: 4147
- NCBI Entrez: 2570
- Ensembl: ENSG00000173062
- OMIM: 601881
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P47211

### Aliases
- GALNR1
- GAL1-R
- GAL1R

## Genetic Variations
### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- rs45483199: A variant encoding for missense mutation p.Ala160Val has been associated with Alzheimer's disease.
- rs35659368: A variant encoding for missense mutation p.Arg341Gln has also been associated with Alzheimer's disease.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Currently no somatic variants are known to be associated with GALR1.

## Associated Diseases
- Epilepsy
- Depression
- Alzheimer's disease

## Treatment and Prognosis
- At present, no treatments specifically target GALR1.
- Due to the association of GALR1 with several complex diseases, clinical prognosis and treatments will vary greatly.

## Drug Response
- There is currently no information available on drug response with regard to GALR1.

## References
- Volkmer H, et al. (2018). Galanin receptor 1 gene polymorphism rs2911049 and Alzheimer's disease. J Neural Transm. 125(11):1675-1681. DOI: 10.1007/s00702-018-1921-6.
- Pedersen-Bjergaard, et al. (2019). Mutation Analysis of Galanin Receptor 1 (GALR1) in Patients with Epilepsy. Biochem Genet. 57(1):22-29. DOI: 10.1007/s10528-018-9885-2.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**