---
title: "TOR1A"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene TOR1A"
tags: ['TOR1A', 'DYT1', 'Dystonia', 'MovementDisorder', 'GeneticMutation', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about gene TOR1A

## Genetic position, pathology, and function

- **Genetic position:** The TOR1A (Torsin family 1 member A) gene is located on chromosome 9q34.2.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in the TOR1A gene are associated with a rare movement disorder called Dystonia 1 (DYT1). This disorder is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner, and individuals with mutations in TOR1A have a 30-40% risk of developing dystonia.
- **Function:** The TOR1A gene encodes for a protein called TorsinA, which is a member of the AAA+ protein family. TorsinA is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and nuclear envelope (NE), where it is involved in maintaining the structure and function of these organelles.

## Gene information

- **Function:** Plays a role in nuclear envelope dynamics and integrity.
- **External IDs for gene:** HGNC: 12456, Entrez Gene: 1861, Ensembl: ENSG00000136822, OMIM: 605204, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O14656.
- **Aliases:** DYT1, DYT1 dystonia.

## Mutations

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
  - c.907G>A (p.Glu303Lys) - rs114534070
  - c.904_906delGAG (p.Glu302del) - rs80356779
  - c.863G>A (p.Gly288Arg) - rs138922612
  - c.779_782dupGAGC (p.Glu261Argfs*11) - rs758893673
  - c.680A>G (p.Asn227Ser) - rs760606982
  - c.595_605delAGAGGGGGGCG (p.Ser199Hisfs*17) - rs370415076
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** None reported.

## Related disease

- **Related disease:** Dystonia 1 (DYT1).
- **Inheritance pattern:** Autosomal dominant.
- **Symptoms:** Involuntary muscle contractions, usually in the limbs, neck, and face.

## Treatment and prognosis

- **Treatment:** Treatment for dystonia 1 is mainly symptomatic and can involve medications, botulinum toxin injections, deep brain stimulation surgery, or physical therapy.
- **Prognosis:** The prognosis for individuals with DYT1 dystonia varies. Some individuals experience only mild symptoms, while others may experience severe disability.

## Drug response

- **Drug response:** Currently, there are no drugs specifically approved for the treatment of DYT1 dystonia, but certain medications can be helpful in managing symptoms.

## Related papers and authors

- **Subject:** Genetic analysis of TOR1A (DYT1) in Czech patients with early-onset isolated dystonia.
- **Author:** Tereza Tilleyova.
- **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clinph.2006.10.005)

- **Subject:** Novel TOR1A mutation p.Arg288Gly in early-onset generalized dystonia.
- **Author:** Eishi Asano, et al.
- **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2015.01.025)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**