---
title: "GHRH"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for GHRH"
tags: ['GHRH', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneMutation', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene Information for GHRH

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Gene Position:** GHRH (Growth Hormone Releasing Hormone) gene is located on the chromosome 20 at the position 20q11.2.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in GHRH gene are found to be associated with isolated growth hormone deficiency type II.
- **Function:** The GHRH gene provides instructions to make a hormone called Growth Hormone Releasing Hormone. This hormone stimulates the pituitary gland to produce and release growth hormone.

## Gene Information and Aliases
- **External IDs for GHRH gene:** 
    - HGNC: 4288
    - NCBI Entrez Gene: 2691
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000124155
- **Aliases:** GRF, GHRF, GHRH, IGFD3

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No mutations have been reported in GHRH gene in the dbSNP database.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic mutations have been reported in GHRH gene in the dbSNP database.

## Related Disease, Treatment, and Prognosis
- **Related Disease:** Isolated Growth Hormone Deficiency Type II
- **Treatment:** Growth hormone replacement therapy
- **Prognosis:** Early diagnosis and early treatment with growth hormone replacement therapy can lead to good prognosis for individuals with isolated growth hormone deficiency type II.

## Drug Response
- Growth hormone replacement therapy is effective for treating isolated growth hormone deficiency type II.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** Role of GHRH in growth hormone regulation and GH gene expression.
    - **Author:** Giustina, A., Veldhuis, J. D.
    - **DOI:** 10.1007/s11154-007-9034-6

- **Subject:** Evidence against large deletions of the GHRH gene as a common cause of isolated GH deficiency type II.
    - **Author:** Francke, S., Ropers, H. H., Wajant, H., Wildhardt, G., Maassen, J. A., Kruse, K.
    - **DOI:** PMID: 8188255

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**