---
title: "CRYAA"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information Analysis: CRYAA"
tags: ['CRYAA', 'CongenitalCataracts', 'AlphaCrystallin', 'EyeDisorders', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'Surgery', 'DrugTherapy']
---

## Gene Information Analysis: CRYAA

### Gene Position
CRYAA gene is located on chromosome 21q22.3.

### Pathology
Mutations in the CRYAA gene has been associated with various eye disorders including congenital cataracts, corneal dystrophy, and microcornea.

### Function
The CRYAA gene encodes alpha-crystallin A chain, a protein that belongs to the alpha-crystallin/small heat shock protein family. Alpha-crystallin functions in maintaining lens transparency and preventing protein aggregation, as well as playing a role in preventing apoptosis.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 2367
- NCBI Entrez: 1409
- Ensembl: ENSG00000154626
- OMIM: 123580
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P02489
- Aliases: CTRCT21, HEL-S-42, HSPB4, L-AP3, MGC141826

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- R12C (rs61752514)
- R21L (rs61752512)
- R49C (rs104893772)
- R54L (rs104894062)
- R116C (rs104893776)
- R116H (rs397515823)
- V162I (rs61752516)
- P23S (rs114895013)
- T38P (rs104893775)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels in the CRYAA gene.

### Related Disease
CRYAA mutations have been associated with various types of inherited cataracts, such as congenital cerulean cataract and progressive polymorphic cortical cataract.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for cataracts usually involves surgical removal of the affected lens and replacement with an artificial lens implant. Prognosis is generally good, with high success rates for cataract surgery. However, in some cases, complications such as inflammation, infection, and retinal detachment may occur.

### Drug Response
There is currently no targeted drug therapy for cataracts caused by CRYAA mutations.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Mutations in the small heat-shock protein CRYAA causing congenital cataract
- Author: Xi-jie Yu et al.
- DOI: 10.1038/ng2083

- Subject: Crystal structure of the hetero-oligomeric chaperonin with a built-in lid
- Author: Saikat Chowdhury et al.
- DOI: 10.1038/nsmb.1875

- Subject: CRYAA gene overexpression produces elevated expression of angiogenic genes in oxygen-induced retinopathy
- Author: M. Pollack et al.
- DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.00506.2011

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**