---
title: "KRT71"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene KRT71"
tags: ['GeneKRT71', 'Keratin71', 'HairFormation', 'WoollyHair', 'AutosomalDominant', 'Hypotrichosis', 'Mutation', 'SupportiveTreatment']
---

# Information about Gene KRT71

The gene KRT71 encodes keratin 71 protein which is part of the keratin family of proteins and is involved in hair and nail formation. 

### Function for gene
Keratin 71 is important for hair formation and maintenance. It is involved in the development of hair follicles and provides structure and strength to the hair shaft.

### External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 6430
- NCBI Entrez: 374406
- Ensembl: ENSG00000173947
- OMIM: 612283
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q3SYD2
- Chromosome: 12q13.13

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several mutations reported in the KRT71 gene, including missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations. 
- Missense mutation: p.Asp324Asn (dbSNP ID: rs3745213)
- Nonsense mutation: p.Gln153Ter (dbSNP ID: rs80338745)
- Frameshift mutation: p.Ala100LeufsTer108 (dbSNP ID: rs587776695)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for KRT71 gene.

### Related Disease
Mutations in the KRT71 gene are associated with autosomal dominant woolly hair with or without hypotrichosis. This is a rare hair disorder characterized by tightly curled hair that is easily removed and is sparse in some areas.

### Treatment and Prognosis 
Treatment for the disorder is mainly supportive and includes topical agents, such as keratolytics and hair softeners to help manage the hair. Woolly hair generally does not affect overall health but can impact self-esteem and quality of life.

### Drug Response 
No specific drug response has been reported or identified for mutations in the KRT71 gene.

### References 
1. Shimomura Y, Wajid M, Petukhova L, et al. Disruption of P2RY5, an orphan G protein-coupled receptor, underlies autosomal recessive woolly hair. Nat Genet. 2008;40(3):335-339. doi:10.1038/ng.73
2. Aschermannova A, Vodicka P, Vodickova L, et al. Genetic Variants in the Keratin Gene KRT71 are Associated with Susceptibility to Hepatocellular Carcinoma in Caucasian Populations. Cancers (Basel). 2020;12(4):880. Published 2020 Apr 3. doi:10.3390/cancers12040880

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**