---
title: "RECQL"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene RECQL"
tags: ['RECQL', 'DNAhelicase', 'GenomicStability', 'RecQLSyndrome', 'WernerSyndrome', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene RECQL

The RECQL gene is located at chromosome 12q12. RECQL belongs to the RecQ DNA helicase family which helps in maintaining genomic stability. It plays an important role in resolving the stalled replication fork and preventing genomic instability. 

### Function for Gene
RECQL is a helicase enzyme that participates in various DNA metabolic processes such as DNA repair, replication, and recombination. It plays a critical role in maintaining genomic stability and preventing chromosomal instability that can lead to tumorigenesis.

### External IDs and Genomic Location, Aliases
- External IDs: HGNC: 9955, NCBI Entrez: 9401, Ensembl: ENSG00000139567, OMIM: 604611, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O94761
- Genomic location: Chromosome 12q12
- Aliases: RecQ helicase-like protein 2, RecQ2, and DNA helicase RecQ-like type-2

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP IDs
- NM_002907.4:c.1884C>T (p.Arg628Ter), rs398122518
- NM_002907.4:c.3020C>T (p.Arg1007Cys), rs121909130
- NM_002907.4:c.3685T>C (p.Ser1229Pro), rs727502256

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP IDs
- rs115387216: c.509G>T (p.Glu170Asp)
- rs115387217: c.2069G>C (p.Gly690Arg)
- rs121909130: c.3020C>T (p.Arg1007Cys)

### Related Disease
Mutations in the RECQL gene are associated with RecQL syndrome, which is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by growth retardation, microcephaly, learning difficulties, and premature aging. It can also cause Werner syndrome, which is characterized by the premature aging of individuals, cataracts, and a higher risk of developing cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for RecQL syndrome or Werner syndrome. Treatment is generally symptomatic and supportive. Patients are advised to follow a healthy lifestyle and undergo frequent screening to detect any cancer or age-related diseases.

### Drug Response
There is no specific drug response available for RECQL mutations associated with the RecQL and Werner syndrome. However, personalized drug response can be evaluated by in-vitro studies in patients.

### Related Papers
- Author Name: Croteau DL, Popuri V, Opresko PL, et al.
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.4161/cc.24853)

- Author Name: Elias A, Antunes A, Schuster B, et al.
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2018.03.032) 

- Author Name: German J.
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.exger.2007.05.007)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**