---
title: "COG2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## COG2 gene"
tags: ['COG2', 'CongenitalDisorderOfGlycosylation', 'MissenseMutations', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'VariablePrognosis', 'AnticonvulsantMedications', 'RareGeneticDisorder', 'IntraGolgiRetrogradeTransport']
---

## COG2 gene

### Overview
- **Function**: The COG2 gene encodes a subunit of the Conserved Oligomeric Golgi (COG) complex, which is involved in intra-Golgi retrograde transport and protein modification. 
- **Aliases**: DRC3, HSPC228, CG2
- **Genomic Location**: Chromosome 10q23.2
- **External IDs**: 
    - HGNC: 23153
    - NCBI Entrez: 85309
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000107521
    - OMIM: 606973
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y2L1
    
### Mutations
- **AA Mutation List**: The following amino acid mutations have been identified in the COG2 gene:
    - p.Gly533Ser
    - p.Thr165Ser
    - p.Thr63Ala
    - p.Ala305Val
- **Mutation Type**: Missense mutations
- **dbSNP ID**: rs786205519, rs786205521, rs201926183, rs786205520

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported in the COG2 gene.

### Related Disease
- **COG2-CDG**: Mutations in the COG2 gene have been associated with a rare genetic disorder known as COG2-congenital disorder of glycosylation (CDG), which is characterized by developmental delay, intellectual disability, seizures, and other neurological symptoms.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment for COG2-CDG is supportive and aims to manage the symptoms of the disease. There is currently no cure for this disorder.
- Prognosis is highly variable, with some individuals having severe symptoms and a shortened lifespan, while others may have milder symptoms and a more normal life expectancy.

### Drug Response
- No drugs have been specifically developed for the treatment of COG2-CDG, but symptomatic treatment may include anticonvulsant medications and physical therapy.

---

#### References:
- Jaeken J, Péanne R. What is new in CDG? J Inherit Metab Dis. 2020;43(3):351-362. doi: 10.1002/jimd.12213
- COG-CDG (Congenital Disorder of Glycosylation). NIH Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center. Accessed on July 30, 2021. [Click](https://rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/13099/cog-cdg.)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**