---
title: "UPF3B"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: UPF3B"
tags: ['UPF3B', 'IntellectualDisability', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'NonsenseMediatedMRNADecay', 'URIDS', 'GeneExpression', 'NeuronalHomeostasis', 'Mutation']
---

# Gene Information: UPF3B

## Genetic Position 
- UPF3B is located on the X chromosome at position Xq24.
- Its genomic coordinates are 119,698,755 - 120,032,408 bp (GRCh38.p13).

## Pathology
- UPF3B gene is associated with intellectual disability and autism spectrum disorder in males.
- Mutations in UPF3B cause a rare X-linked disorder called UPF3B-related intellectual disability syndrome (URIDS).

## Function
- UPF3B encodes a protein that is a part of the nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) pathway, which is responsible for the degradation of mRNA transcripts that contain premature stop codons.
- It plays a crucial role in the regulation of gene expression and maintenance of neuronal homeostasis in the brain.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 12549
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 65109
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000011052
- OMIM ID: 300893
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9H2A2
- Aliases: UPF3X, IBMPFD2, NMDA2, hUpf3b

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Asp311Ser (rs58778305)
- p.Thr738Metfs*8 (rs58778291)
- p.Thr738Metfs*10 (rs58778294)
- Missense mutations, frameshift mutations, and nonsense mutations are the most common types of mutations identified in UPF3B.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No known somatic mutations have been reported for the UPF3B gene.

## Related Disease
- UPF3B-related intellectual disability syndrome (URIDS)
- Autism spectrum disorder (ASD)
- Non-syndromic intellectual disability

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no cure for URIDs and treatment is symptomatic.
- The prognosis for individuals with UPF3B mutations depends on the severity of intellectual disability and associated symptoms.

## Drug Response
- There is no specific drug available for the treatment of UPF3B-related disorders.

## Related Papers and Links
- Tanaka AJ, Cho MT, Millan F, et al. Mutations in UPF3B, a member of the nonsense-mediated mRNA decay complex, cause syndromic and nonsyndromic intellectual disability. Nat Genet. 2016;48(7):767-76. doi: 10.1038/ng.3589
- UPF3B - Genetics Home Reference. U.S. National Library of Medicine. ([Click](https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/UPF3B))
- UPF3B - GeneCards. ([Click](https://www.genecards.org/cgi-bin/carddisp.pl?gene=UPF3B))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**