---
title: "DDX53"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene DDX53"
tags: ['DDX53', 'DEADboxhelicase', 'RNAmetabolism', 'genetics', 'genomics', 'disease', 'treatment', 'drugresponse']
---

## Gene DDX53

### Genetic Position
Gene DDX53 (DEAD-box helicase 53) is located at 19p13.3 in the human genome.

### Pathology
Currently, there is no known disease associated with mutations in DDX53.

### Function
DDX53 encodes for a DEAD-box helicase protein that plays a role in RNA metabolism and RNA-protein interactions.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 28973
- NCBI Entrez: 285755
- Ensembl: ENSG00000129367
- OMIM: 609560
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BVJ1
- Aliases: DKFZp779F0379, FLJ54091

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are currently no amino acid mutations reported for DDX53 in the dbSNP database.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for DDX53 in the dbSNP database.

### Related Disease
Currently, there is no known disease associated with mutations in DDX53.

### Treatment and Prognosis
As there is currently no known disease associated with mutations in DDX53, there is no specific treatment or prognosis.

### Drug Response
There is currently no information on drug response for DDX53.

### Related Papers
- "DDX53 Promotes Exon 6 Inclusion of SMN2 Pre-mRNA to Rescue SMA Phenotypes" by Z. Yang et al. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molcel.2019.08.007))
- "Identification of human genes involved in cellular responses to ionizing radiation: molecular and cellular studies of gene encoding the p68 helicase in mammalian cells" by O. Matsushita et al. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.radmeas.2007.12.006))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**