---
title: "LCAT"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene LCAT"
tags: ['GeneLCAT', 'LCATdeficiency', 'CholesterolTransport', 'RenalFailure', 'Anemia', 'EyeAbnormalities', 'Erythropoietin', 'ACEinhibitors']
---

# Gene LCAT

## Genetic Position
Gene LCAT (Lecithin-Cholesterol Acyltransferase) is located on the long arm of chromosome 16 (16q22.1).

## Pathology
Pathogenic mutations in the LCAT gene lead to a rare autosomal recessive disorder called LCAT deficiency. In this disorder, the function of LCAT protein decreases, leading to the accumulation of cholesterol esters and phospholipids in various parts of the body. This can lead to complications such as renal failure, anemia, and eye abnormalities.

## Function
The LCAT gene provides instructions for producing a protein called Lecithin-Cholesterol Acyltransferase (LCAT). The LCAT protein is responsible for converting cholesterol into cholesteryl esters, which helps to transport cholesterol in the blood and prevents its deposition in various tissues.

## External IDs and aliases
- HGNC: 6545
- NCBI Entrez: 3931
- Ensembl: ENSG00000103197
- OMIM: 245900
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P04180

Aliases:
- LCATD

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg60Leu - rs1800588
- p.Arg147Trp - rs61750646
- p.Trp318Cys - rs121918434
- p.Asp416Asn - rs121918435

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
The LCAT gene does not have any reported somatic mutations.

## Related Disease
- LCAT deficiency

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for LCAT deficiency. Treatment typically involves managing symptoms and complications of the disorder. In some cases, kidney transplantation has been used to treat renal complications.

## Drug Response
There are currently no drugs specifically approved for the treatment of LCAT deficiency. However, therapies aimed at managing associated complications, such as anemia or renal failure, may include drugs such as erythropoietin or angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors.

## Related Papers
- Authors: Kuivenhoven JA, Pritchard H, Hill J, Frohlich J, Assmann G, Kastelein JJ
  - Title: The molecular pathology of lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) deficiency syndromes.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s001090050043

- Authors: Calabresi L, Simonelli S, Gomaraschi M, Franceschini G
  - Title: Genetic lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase deficiency and cardiovascular disease.
  - DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200060030-00001

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**