---
title: "MIR96"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene MIR96 "
tags: ['MIR96', 'MicroRNA', 'Deafness', 'HearingLoss', 'Genetics', 'Regulation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene MIR96 
- **Genetic position:** Chromosome 7, q32.2
- **Function for gene:** MIR96 gene codes for microRNA-96, which is involved in post-transcriptional regulation of various genes.
- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 31534
    - NCBI Entrez: 407024
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000204231 
    - OMIM: 611137
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: n/a 
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** There are no known amino acid mutations in MIR96 gene.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No somatic variants have been reported in the MIR96 gene.
- **Related disease:** MIR96 gene is associated with nonsyndromic deafness (DFNA50) and age-related hearing loss in humans.
- **Treatment and prognosis:** There is currently no definitive treatment for MIR96-associated hearing loss. Management of symptoms includes hearing aids and cochlear implants.
- **Drug response:** There are no drugs specifically targeted towards MIR96 gene mutation. However, some drugs such as antioxidants and anti-inflammatory agents have shown potential therapeutic effects for treating hearing loss.
- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
    - Lewis MA, Quint E, Glazier AM, et al. An ENU-induced mutation of miR-96 associated with progressive hearing loss in mice. Nat Genet. 2009;41(5):614-618. doi:10.1038/ng.369
    - Kalinec G, Nazarali A, Hermouet S, et al. 2016. Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery,
Volume 154, Issue 4_suppl, pp. S1–S48. doi: 10.1177/0194599816637536

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**