---
title: "NPSR1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene information for NPSR1"
tags: ['NPSR1', 'NeuropeptideS', 'AnxietyDisorders', 'BipolarDisorder', 'Schizophrenia', 'Obesity', 'DrugResponse', 'Mutation']
---

# Gene information for NPSR1

## Genetic Position:

The human NPSR1 gene is located on chromosome 7 (7q36.1) and it spans over 37,476 base pairs.

## Pathology:

NPSR1 gene is associated with various diseases including obesity, anxiety disorders, and asthma. Variants in the NPSR1 gene have been implicated in the risk for bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and depression. It has also been found to play a role in inflammation and immunity.

## Function:

The NPSR1 gene encodes for the Neuropeptide S receptor 1 protein. This protein is involved in regulating a variety of physiological processes including arousal, feeding behavior, sleep, and immune function. It also mediates the effects of neuropeptide S (NPS), a peptide involved in modulating stress response, anxiety, and mood.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location:

- HGNC: 18731
- NCBI Entrez: 387473
- Ensembl: ENSG00000174839
- OMIM: 609032
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6YHK3

Aliases: GPRA, NPSR, TOM, D20S172, Neuropeptide S receptor

## AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID:

There are several nonsynonymous mutations in the NPSR1 gene that have been reported. Here are some of the common mutations identified:

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
|----------|------|----------|
| R109Q | Missense | rs324981 |
| R197Q | Missense | rs349745 |
| S131I | Missense | rs727162 |
| T374A | Missense | rs539688363 |
| V207M | Missense | rs140424548 |
| P315L | Missense | rs146982628 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

There is limited information on somatic mutations in the NPSR1 gene.

## Related Diseases:

Variants in the NPSR1 gene have been associated with several diseases including:

- Asthma
- Anxiety disorders
- Bipolar disorder
- Depression
- Schizophrenia
- Obesity

## Treatment and Prognosis:

There is no specific treatment or prognosis information available for NPSR1 gene variants. However, drugs targeting the NPSR1 receptor could potentially be used in the treatment of anxiety disorders and other conditions associated with NPSR1 gene variants.

## Drug Response:

Studies have shown that the NPSR1 gene is a potential target for the treatment of anxiety disorders. Researchers are exploring the use of NPSR1 antagonists as a potential treatment option.

## Related Papers:

- Subject: Association between the NPSR1 gene and anxiety disorders
  - Author: Domschke K, Reif A
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neubiorev.2012.02.005)

- Subject: Neuropeptide S pathway genes are associated with motor response in methamphetamine-dependent individuals
  - Author: Ursini G, Taurisano P
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pnpbp.2015.10.017.)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**