---
title: "SPG11"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: SPG11"
tags: ['SPG11', 'HereditarySpasticParaplegia', 'Autophagy', 'NeuronalSurvival', 'Mutation', 'SymptomManagement', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: SPG11

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 15
- Location: q21.1
- Strand: minus

## Pathology
- SPG11 is associated with spastic paraplegia (SPG11).
- SPG11 mutations are responsible for the large majority of cases of autosomal recessive hereditary spastic paraplegia (ARHSP) and spastic paraplegia type 11 (SPG11).

## Function
- SPG11 encodes a protein called spatacsin which is involved in the process of autophagy (the degradation of cellular material). 
- It plays a vital role in neural development and neuronal survival

## External IDs, Aliases and Genomic Location
- HGNC:11246
- Entrez Gene:25867 
- Ensembl:ENSG00000185103  
- OMIM:610844  
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6P1I1 
- Alias: KIAA1840; Maspardin

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- About 281 missense, 96 nonsense, 17 frameshift, 42 splice site, 17 inframe indel, 7 stop lost mutations and 11 others mutations have been identified in SPG11 gene.
- Some common mutations include p.Ala510Val, p.Cys1921Tyr, p.Arg2774Ter, and p.Gln398Ter.
- dbSNP IDs for some of these mutations are:
   - rs74315308: p.Arg2774Ter
   - rs140402787: p.Cys1921Tyr
   - rs386834148: p.Gly2834AspfsTer2

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No record of somatic SNVs/InDels for SPG11 gene is found in the dbSNP.

## Related Disease
- Autosomal recessive hereditary spastic paraplegia
- Spastic paraplegia type 11

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no cure for SPG11-related diseases.
- Treatment is mainly focused on managing symptoms and providing relief from complications.
- The prognosis varies depending on the age of onset and severity of the symptoms.

## Drug Response
- There is no known drug or treatment specifically for SPG11-related diseases.

## Related Papers
- Subject: A new mutation in SPG11 gene causes severe phenotypes presenting as adolescent onset atypical parkinsonism and adult-onset spastic paraplegia
- Author: Zhang ZJ, Li WH, Li Y, Chen FY, Zhu YC, Liu YH, Li HF.
- DOI: 10.1186/s13023-019-1147-2

- Subject: Spatacsin mutations cause premature neurodegeneration in humans and interfere with autophagy in Drosophila
- Author: Branchu J, et al.
- DOI: 10.1038/ng.2247

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**