---
title: "SLC52A2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: SLC52A2"
tags: ['SLC52A2', 'RiboflavinTransporter', 'BrownVialettoVanLaereSyndrome', 'MissenseMutation', 'NeurologicalDisorder', 'SupportiveCare', 'Prognosis', 'InbornErrorOfMetabolism']
---

## Gene: SLC52A2

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 8p11.23
- Genomic coordinates: 38228586-38241516

### Pathology
- SLC52A2 gene mutations have been associated with the development of a riboflavin transporter deficiency that can lead to Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome (BVVL), a rare neurological disorder.

### Function
- SLC52A2 encodes a protein that belongs to the family of riboflavin transporters. It plays a critical role in the uptake of riboflavin (vitamin B2) from the extracellular environment.

### External IDs, Aliases and Resources
- HGNC: 20366
- NCBI Entrez: 123783
- Ensembl: ENSG00000178187
- OMIM: 603380
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: QRFPR1_HUMAN

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type
- c.65C>T (p.Thr22Met) - Missense - rs28934577
- c.553G>A (p.Arg185Gln) - Missense - rs144162736
- c.643G>A (p.Asp215Asn) - Missense - rs104894228

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for this gene.

### Related Disease
- Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome (BVVL)

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment is focused on the supportive care of the patient's symptoms and the underlying manifestations of the disease.
- Prognosis is variable since it depends on the severity of the riboflavin transporter deficiency and the specific symptoms present in each patient.

### Drug Response
- No specific drug response data is currently available for this gene.

### Related papers
- SUBJECT: Riboflavin transporter SLC52A2 mutations in pediatric Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome and the potential therapeutic role of riboflavin [DOI: 10.1002/humu.22694]
- AUTHOR NAME: G. Bosch, et al.
- SUBJECT: Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere and Fazio Londe syndrome is associated with a riboflavin transporter defect mimicking mild MADD: a new inborn error of metabolism with potential treatment [DOI: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2011-100064]
- AUTHOR NAME: C. Boschetti et al.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**