---
title: "CERS6"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene CERS6"
tags: ['CERS6', 'CeramideSynthase', 'Type2Diabetes', 'LiverDisease', 'NonAlcoholicFattyLiverDisease', 'Sphingolipids', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene CERS6

## Genetic Position
CERS6 gene is located on Chromosome 3 at the position 3q21.2.

## Pathology
Mutations in the CERS6 gene have been associated with a variety of diseases like type 2 diabetes, liver disease, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

## Function
CERS6 encodes a ceramide synthase protein that is involved in the biosynthesis of sphingolipids such as ceramide, a lipid molecule that plays an important role in cellular signaling pathways, inflammation, and apoptosis.

## External IDs and aliases
- HGNC (HUGO Gene Nomenclature Committee): 21910
- NCBI Entrez: 80715
- Ensembl: ENSG00000121768
- OMIM: 615237
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8TDN6

Aliases: LASS6, hLASS6, DEGS5

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- rs121908543 (p.Thr223Ile)
- rs1805008 (p.Arg298Gln)
- rs3212227 (p.Ser338Phe)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs/InDels are reported in CERS6 gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in CERS6 gene are associated with type 2 diabetes, liver disease, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no known specific treatment available to target CERS6 mutations. The prognosis of diseases associated with CERS6 mutations vary depending on the severity of the disease.

## Drug Response
There is no known drug response reported for CERS6 gene mutations.

## Related Papers
- Hu W, Chen L, Yang Y, Zhang J, Zhao W, Liu Y, Xu Y, Huang X, Lin T, Lu Z. Cers6 regulates insulin secretion by controlling ceramide synthesis in pancreatic β cells. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2018 Nov 1;315(5):E869-E881. doi: 10.1152/ajpendo.00092.2018. Epub 2018 May 29. PMID: 29812974.
- Rotman Y, Koh C, Zmuda JM, Kleiner DE, Liang TJ, Nash CR, et al. The association of genetic variability in patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein 3 (PNPLA3) with histological severity of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Hepatology. 2010;52(3):894–903. doi: 10.1002/hep.23768.
- Pirazzi C, Adiels M, Burza MA, Mancina RM, Levin M, Ståhlman M, Taskinen MR, Orho-Melander M, Perman J, Pujia A, Montalcini T et al. Patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein 3 (PNPLA3) I148M (rs738409) affects hepatic VLDL secretion in humans and in vitro. J Hepatol. 2012 Mar;56(3):600-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2011.08.025. Epub 2011 Oct 20. PMID: 22023739.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**