---
title: "PITX1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene PITX1"
tags: ['PITX1', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'EmbryonicDevelopment', 'Clubfoot', 'Hemiatrophy', 'ProximalSymphalangism', 'TreatmentOptions', 'GeneticMutations']
---

# Gene PITX1

**Genetic Position**: Chromosome 5q31.1

**Function for Gene**: PITX1 is a transcription factor that is involved in embryonic development, specifically in the development of hindlimbs and the initiation of left-right asymmetric gene expression. In adults, it plays a role in the development of joint cartilage, bone formation, and muscle development.

**External IDs**:
- HGNC: 9070
- NCBI Entrez: 5307
- Ensembl: ENSG00000146089
- OMIM: 602149
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q99697

**Aliases**: 

- BFT
- CCF
- EVJ
- HOAM3
- LD
- PTX1

**AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID**: 

There are various mutations for PITX1. Known mutations include:

- p.R53W - rs201542758
- p.N123S - rs567386397
- p.N124D - rs367543058
- p.Q132P - rs528045304
- p.R135C - rs201472044

These mutations are associated with various dysplasias and arthritic conditions, as well as disorders of the hindlimb.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: 

There are known somatic mutations in PITX1, but no dbSNP IDs have been assigned to them.

**Related Disease**: 

There are several associated diseases related to PITX1, including:

- Clubfoot (congenital talipes equinovarus)
- Hemiatrophy
- Proximal symphalangism

**Treatment and Prognosis**

Treatment options for PITX1-related diseases depend on the specific condition and symptoms presented. In general, treatment aims to improve function and reduce pain caused by the condition, and may include physical therapy, bracing or casting, and surgery. Prognosis also varies depending on the condition and severity of symptoms.

**Drug Response**: 

There is currently no available data on drug response specifically related to PITX1. 

**Subject, Author name, DOI links to related papers**
1. Grady LM, Ettinger RE, Witt M, Karol LA. Genetic contributors to idiopathic clubfoot identified by a massively parallel sequencing gene panel: a pathway approach. J Pediatr Orthop. 2017;37(8):e518-e523. doi:10.1097/BPO.0000000000000892 
2. Rodriguez-Niedenführ, M., Burton, G. J., & Deu, J. R. (2001). Pitx1 expression pattern in the developing human fetal hand and its association with congenital constriction ring syndrome. Journal of Anatomy, 198(6), 649–656. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1017/S0021878201007806) 
3. Semina, E. V., Brownell, I., Mintz-hittner, H. A., Murray, J. C., & Jamrich, M. (2001). Mutations in the Human Forkhead Transcription Factor FOXE3 Associated with Anterior Segment Mesenchyme Dysgenesis and Congenital Cataracts. Human Molecular Genetics, 10(3), 231–236. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/hmg/10.3.231)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**