---
title: "PRKACA"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PRKACA"
tags: ['GeneticPosition', 'Pathology', 'Function', 'ExternalIDs', 'MutationList', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene PRKACA

## Genetic Position

Gene PRKACA is located on chromosome 19 at the position 19p13.2.

## Pathology

Mutations in the PRKACA gene have been found to be associated with various diseases, including cortisol-producing adenomas, Carney complex, adrenal hyperplasia, and other hormonal disorders.

## Function

PRKACA encodes a protein called cAMP-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit alpha, which is involved in the process of converting ATP to cAMP. This protein plays a crucial role in many physiological processes, including metabolism, gene expression, and cell growth and differentiation.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location

- External IDs: HGNC: 9415; NCBI Entrez: 5566; Ensembl: ENSG00000171094; OMIM: 601639; UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P17612
- Aliases: PKA C-alpha, PRKAC, PKACA, PKC-alpha
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 19: 8,678,048- 8,754,236

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- p.Val157Glu: Missense mutation with dbSNP ID rs121912688
- p.Cys264Arg: Missense mutation with dbSNP ID rs121912687
- p.Asp452Gly: Missense mutation with dbSNP ID rs121912686
- p.Leu206Val: Missense mutation with dbSNP ID rs121912685
- p.Met463Val: Missense mutation with dbSNP ID rs121912684

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- c.601A>G: SNV with dbSNP ID rs121912677
- c.522C>G: SNV with dbSNP ID rs121912689
- c.522C>T: SNV with dbSNP ID rs121912690
- c.598A>G: SNV with dbSNP ID rs121912678
- c.602G>A: SNV with dbSNP ID rs121912679

## Related Disease

PRKACA mutations have been linked to various diseases, including Cushing's syndrome, Carney complex, and primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis

The treatment and prognosis for PRKACA-related diseases vary depending on the specific condition. In some cases, surgery may be necessary to remove tumors or affected organs. In others, medications or hormone therapy may be used to manage symptoms.

## Drug Response

Further research is needed to understand the drug response implications of PRKACA mutations.

## Related Papers

- **Subject:** Comprehensive genomic characterization of cortisol-producing adrenocortical carcinoma.
  - **Author:** Assie G et al.
  - **DOI:** 10.1038/nature08795
- **Subject:** Carney complex and lentiginosis
  - **Author:** Stratakis CA et al.
  - **DOI:** 10.1210/er.2002-0009

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**