---
title: "SCLT1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SCLT1"
tags: ['SCLT1', 'BreastCancer', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticMutation', 'GenomicLocation', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene SCLT1

## Genetic Position
The SCLT1 gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 4 at position 22.1.

## Pathology
There is limited information on the pathology of SCLT1 gene mutations. However, some studies suggest that alterations in this gene may be involved in the development of breast cancer.

## Function for Gene
The SCLT1 gene encodes a protein that is involved in intracellular transport of vesicles containing proteins.

## External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- HGNC: 10747
- NCBI Entrez: 57833
- Ensembl: ENSG00000109971
- OMIM: 611506
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N9H7
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 4 (p22.1)

Aliases:
- SCLT1, SCAFFOLDIN, KIAA1479, Chromosome 4 Short Arm Gene 25 protein


## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several amino acid mutations listed in dbSNP for the SCLT1 gene. Here are a few examples:
- c.403T>C p.Leu135Ser (rs201303656)
- c.1015G>T p.Ala339Ser (rs778063743)
- c.1096A>G p.Met366Val (rs28897685)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Limited information is available regarding somatic SNVs or InDels in the SCLT1 gene.

## Related Disease
There is some indication that mutations in the SCLT1 gene may be associated with breast cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment or prognosis associated with SCLT1 gene mutations. Treatment and prognosis for breast cancer, if present, would depend on the individual case.

## Drug Response
There is no information regarding drug response specific to SCLT1 gene mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: The Role of SCLT1 in the development of breast cancer.
  - Author: Zhang X, Liu F
  - DOI: 10.1097/CM9.0000000000001290
  
- Subject: Identification of a novel SCLT1 variant in a family with breast cancer
  - Author: Ricci MT, Maacks E
  - DOI: 10.1111/1749-0774.12625

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**