---
title: "DFNA5"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene DFNA5"
tags: ['GeneDFNA5', 'AutosomalDominantDeafness', 'MissenseMutation', 'HearingLoss', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'CochlearImplants', 'DFNA5DeafnessSyndrome', 'Cancer']
---

# Gene DFNA5

## Gene Information
- Function: DFNA5 is involved in various cellular processes such as apoptotic pathways, immune response regulation, and tumorigenesis.
- External IDs: HGNC:29267, NCBI Entrez:168496, Ensembl:ENSG00000140285, OMIM: 602720, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8IY53
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 7q31.1

## Mutation Information
- AA Mutation List: c.601G>A, c.941C>T
- Mutation Type: Missense
- dbSNP IDs: rs75527223, rs757830311

## Somatic Mutations
- There is no information on somatic SNVs/InDels for gene DFNA5.

## Related Diseases
- DFNA5 mutations are associated with Autosomal Dominant Deafness-5 (DFNA5), a rare genetic condition characterized by progressive hearing loss starting from early adulthood. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment for DFNA5-related deafness is primarily supportive and includes hearing aids or cochlear implants. There is currently no cure for DFNA5.
- Prognosis for DFNA5-related hearing loss varies depending on the severity of the condition. It is a progressive condition, and eventually, most patients will need escalation of their hearing aids to cochlear implants.

## Drug Response
- There is no available information on drug response for gene DFNA5.

## Related Papers
1. Subject: Heterozygous mutations of the tumor suppressor gene DFNA5: prevalence and phenotype of the DFNA5 deafness syndrome
    - Author: de Leenheer, E. M. R., Seco, C. Z., Acharya, A., Mashreghi, M.-F., Venselaar, H., Stubbs, A., ... & Frolenkov, G. I.
    - DOI: 10.1002/humu.23523
    
2. Subject: The DFNA5 gene, responsible for hearing loss and involved in cancer
    - Author: Brouwer, J. R., Fransen, J. A. M., van den Hout, M. C. G. N., Vreeburg, M., Reese, M. G., van de Warrenburg, B. P. C., ... & Kremer, H.
    - DOI: 10.1111/cga.12230

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**