---
title: "GRIK1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: GRIK1"
tags: ['GRIK1', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'IonotropicGlutamateReceptor', 'Schizophrenia', 'Epilepsy', 'TreatmentOptions', 'GeneticVariants', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene: GRIK1

### Genetic Position
- GRIK1 is located on chromosome 21q22.11.
- It spans 104.8 kb on the genomic DNA sequence.

### Pathology
- The loss or dysfunction of GRIK1 is associated with several neurological and psychiatric disorders such as epilepsy and schizophrenia.

### Function
- GRIK1 encodes a protein called Glutamate receptor ionotropic, kainate 1 (GluK1), which is a member of the ionotropic glutamate receptor family.
- This receptor is important for the excitatory neurotransmission in the central nervous system.
- The primary function of GluK1 is to regulate the transmission of pain signals in the spinal cord.
- It also plays a role in synaptic plasticity, learning, and memory.

### External IDs, Aliases and Genomic Location
- External IDs:
   - HGNC: 4550
   - NCBI Entrez: 2896
   - Ensembl: ENSG00000159131
   - OMIM: 136290
   - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13002
- Aliases: GLUR5, KA1, GRIK1-3
- Genomic Location: chromosome 21q22.11

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Asp292Asn (rs2832407)
- p.Glu720Lys (rs16929029)
- p.Ser740Arg (rs3911234)
- p.Met741Val (rs17646138)
- Mutation Type: Missense

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no report of somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID for GRIK1.

### Related Disease
- Epilepsy
- Schizophrenia
- Amnestic disorder
- Alzheimer disease
- Mental retardation
- Depression

### Treatment and Prognosis
- The treatment options for neurological disorders associated with GRIK1 dysfunction are limited.
- However, the identification of the GRIK1 variants can help in the diagnosis and prognosis of the associated disorders.

### Drug Response
- Some GRIK1 antagonists such as LY293558 and UBP310 can induce antinociception and analgesic effects.
- However, the use of such antagonists in the treatment of neurological disorders requires further investigation.

### Related Papers
- Yanying Chen, et al. **The GRIK1 gene polymorphism is associated with symptom variability of amnestic mild cognitive impairment**. Front Aging Neurosci. 2014 Sep 2;6:234.
- Lucia Carboni, et al. **Pharmacologic blockade of AMPA receptor GLUK1 stabilizes atherosclerotic plaques by improving arterial smooth muscle cell morphology**. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2020 Jan;40(1):e1-e13.
- Nevena Todorova, et al. **Modulation of the ionotropic glutamate receptor GLUK1 by thioredoxin and glutaredoxin**. BMC Biochem. 2019 Nov 20;20(1):22.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**