---
title: "MCCC2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene MCCC2"
tags: ['MCCC2', '3MCC', 'AminoAcidMetabolism', 'GeneticDisorder', 'EnzymeDeficiency', 'LowProteinDiet', 'LcarnitineSupplementation', 'NeurologicalSymptoms']
---

# Information about gene MCCC2

## Genetic Position
The MCCC2 gene is located on the chromosome 5q13.2.

## Pathology
Mutations in the MCCC2 gene can lead to an autosomal recessive disorder called 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency (3-MCC deficiency). This disorder affects the body's ability to break down certain amino acids, leading to a buildup of toxic byproducts that can cause neurological problems and other symptoms.

## Function
The MCCC2 gene provides instructions to make an enzyme called 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase, which plays a critical role in the breakdown of amino acids.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 6833
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 133562
- Ensembl: ENSG00000113396
- OMIM: 609010
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HCC0
- Aliases: MCCC2, 3MCC

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.83G>A: p.G28D (rs745955153)
- c.686A>G: p.Y229C (rs267607003)
- c.896G>A: p.R299H (rs78843306)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.886C>A: p.S296Y (rs397514556)

## Related Disease
- 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency (3-MCC deficiency)

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for 3-MCC deficiency involves a low-protein diet and supplementation with L-carnitine. Prognosis can vary depending on the severity of the condition, with some individuals experiencing developmental delays or other long-term complications.

## Drug Response
No information is available about drug response for MCCC2.

## Related Papers
- Author Name: Baumgartner MR, Horster F, Dionisi-Vici C, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/s0022-3476(94)70184-3)
- Author Name: Grunert SC, Schmitt RN, Schlune A, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymgme.2008.12.022)
- Author Name: Zhao M, Wang ZJ, Jiang LL, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/cch.12809)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**