---
title: "MGAT3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### **Information about gene MGAT3**"
tags: ['MGAT3', 'Glycosylation', 'CDG', 'GeneticDisorders', 'Enzymes', 'ProteinModification', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

### **Information about gene MGAT3**

**Genetic position:** Chromosome 22q11.23

**Function for gene:** MGAT3 encodes for an enzyme called β-1,4-mannosyl-glycoprotein 4-β-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase that modifies glycan structures on proteins.

**External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
- HGNC: 7067
- NCBI Entrez: 4247
- Ensembl: ENSG00000100341
- OMIM: 602616
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y6L7

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** Mutations in MGAT3 are not frequent in diseases and pathologies.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** Somatic mutations in MGAT3 have not been extensively reported.

**Related disease:** Mutations in MGAT3 have been linked to Congenital disorder of Glycosylation (CDG) type-IIa.

**Treatment and prognosis:** Currently, there is no cure for Congenital disorder of Glycosylation type-IIa. Treatment consists of management of symptoms, and possible liver and kidney transplantation in some cases. The prognosis of CDG patients is highly variable, depending on the severity of their symptoms and their response to treatments.

**Drug response:** There are no drugs specifically designed to treat CDG but patients could be treated with hormone replacements and supportive regimes.

**Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
- Freeze HH et al., 2000. Genetic defects in the human glycosylation of Thomsen-Friedenreich antigen and its precursor. J. Biol. Chem. 275: 17506-17511. DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M000437200)
- Jaeken J et al., 2015. Congenital disorders of glycosylation: a revised classification and nomenclature. Eur. J. Hum. Genet. 23: 416-436. DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ejhg.2014.106)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**