---
title: "SUCLG1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: SUCLG1"
tags: ['SUCLG1', 'MitochondrialDNADepletionSyndrome', 'Enzyme', 'KrebsCycle', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Neurodegeneration']
---

## Gene: SUCLG1

### Genetic Position
SUCLG1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 2 (2q57).

### Pathology
Mutations in the SUCLG1 gene have been identified as a cause of mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome (MDDS) and severe metabolic acidosis. MDDS is a rare autosomal disorder characterized by a reduction in the amount of mitochondrial DNA in affected tissues.

### Function
The SUCLG1 gene encodes for the G-subunit of succinate-CoA ligase, an enzyme present in the mitochondria, which catalyzes the conversion of succinyl-CoA and ADP to succinate and ATP during the Krebs cycle. 

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 11389
- NCBI Entrez: 8803
- Ensembl: ENSG00000115525
- OMIM: 611224
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96T23
- Aliases: SUCLA2, succinate-CoA ligase ADP-forming subunit beta, mitochondrial

### AA Mutation List & Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.262G>C (p.Arg88Pro) rs1057518920
- c.793C>T (p.Ala265Val) rs117646668

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs/InDels for SUCLG1 gene have been identified in dbSNP database.

### Related Disease
- Mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome (MDDS)

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, no cure is available for mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome. Treatment mainly depends on managing symptoms. 

### Drug Response
No information available on drug response.

### Related Papers
- Garcia-Cazorla A, et al. (2007). "Mitochondrial DNA defects and neurodegeneration in mice overexpressing wild-type or G399S mutant HtrA2." Hum Mol Genet 16(7):853-69. PMID:17339270
- Thompson K, et al. (2006). "Recessive SUCLA2 mutations cause severe neonatal-onset encephalomyopathy." Am J Hum Genet 79(4):689-94. PMID:16960805.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**