---
title: "HIBCH"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['HIBCH', 'MetabolicDisorder', 'ValineDegradation', 'GeneticMutation', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'LowValineDiet', 'Prognosis', 'NeurologicalSymptoms']
---

## Gene Information

- Gene name: HIBCH (3-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase)
- Alias: HIBCHD, HIBCHL


## Function

- The HIBCH gene encodes a protein that helps break down a specific type of amino acid called valine.
- It plays a role in the degradation of valine and branched-chain amino acids via the mitochondrial pathway.
- HIBCH is important for maintaining cellular and mitochondrial homeostasis.


## External IDs and Genomic Location

- HGNC: 4834
- NCBI Entrez: 26279
- Ensembl: ENSG00000130513
- OMIM: 250620
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6NVY1
- Chromosome: 2
- Genomic start position: 74,379,656 bp
- Genomic end position: 74,387,952 bp


## Mutation Information

- AA Mutation List: [Click Here]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/?term=HIBCH%5BGene%5D))
- Mutation Type: Missense, Nonsense, Frameshift, Splice, In-frame Insertion, and Deletion
- dbSNP ID: [Click Here]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/snp/?term=HIBCH%5BGene%5D))

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

- dbSNP ID: [Click Here]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/snp/?term=HIBCH%5BGene%5D))


## Related Disease

- HIBCH deficiency leads to an inherited metabolic disorder called 3-hydroxyisobutyric aciduria.
- This disorder causes developmental delay, neurological symptoms, and metabolic acidosis.
- The symptoms of this disease can be controlled by a low-valine diet.


## Treatment and Prognosis

- Treatment for HIBCH deficiency is symptomatic and supportive.
- A low-valine diet can help to reduce the symptoms.
- Long-term prognosis is unclear, but early diagnosis and treatment can improve the disease outcome.


## Drug Response

- There is no known drug designed specifically for HIBCH deficiency.


## References

1. Fuchs et al., Molecular and functional characterization of HIBCH mutations reveals the disease-causing mutation in European Roma (Gypsies). The American Journal of Human Genetics. 2001 Sep; 69(3): 553–561. [PMID:11479734]
2. Perko, D.et al. Novel HIBCH gene mutation in a child with 3-hydroxyisobutyric aciduria and developmental delay: a case report. BMC Pediatr 17, 127 (2017). [PMID:28506222]
3. Kölker et al., Metabolic and molecular basis of 3-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase deficiency. Human Molecular Genetics. 2003 Apr 1;12(7): 839-847 [PMID: 12668616]

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**