---
title: "CTTNBP2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene information for CTTNBP2 "
tags: ['CTTNBP2', 'Schizophrenia', 'GeneticVariants', 'ActinCytoskeleton', 'SynapticStructure', 'MissenseMutations', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene information for CTTNBP2 

### Genetic Position
The CTTNBP2 gene is located on human chromosome 4q28.2.

### Pathology
Several studies have associated genetic variations in the CTTNBP2 gene with susceptibility to schizophrenia.

### Function
The CTTNBP2 (Cortactin Binding Protein 2) gene encodes a protein that is involved in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton and synaptic structure. 

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 25932
- NCBI Entrez: 83443
- Ensembl: ENSG00000109814
- OMIM: 613208
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N8Q9

Aliases:
- CortBP2
- P85

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) reported in the CTTNBP2 gene. Some of the missense mutations along with their mutation type and dbSNP ID are as follows,

|Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|:---|:---|:---|
|p.Lys437Glu|Missense|rs759862486|
|p.Arg360Gln|Missense|rs372701312|
|p.Gln562Arg|Missense|rs148744864|
|p.Glu886Asp|Missense|rs375144232|
|p.Thr692Ala|Missense|rs372332032|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic mutations in the CTTNBP2 gene.

### Related Disease
Several studies suggest that genetic variants in the CTTNBP2 gene contribute to the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment currently available for CTTNBP2-related disease. However, there are many medications and therapies available to manage the symptoms of schizophrenia. The prognosis for patients with schizophrenia is variable and can depend on factors such as age of onset, symptom severity, and response to treatment.

### Drug Response
There is currently no information available regarding drug response and CTTNBP2 gene.

### Related papers
- [Association of CTTNBP2 gene polymorphism with schizophrenia](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11033-016-4023-y)
- [The CTTNBP2 gene is associated with schizophrenia](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.schres.2014.06.027)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**