---
title: "UBQLN2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: UBQLN2"
tags: ['UBQLN2', 'ALS', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorder', 'ProteasomeSystem', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'ClinicalTrials']
---

## Gene: UBQLN2

### Genetic Position and Function

- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome X: 113,424,101 - 113,491,867 bp
- **Function for gene:** The UBQLN2 gene encodes a protein involved in the regulation of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. It is involved in the clearance of misfolded and aggregated proteins which is essential for normal cellular function. 

### External IDs and Aliases 

- **External ID (HGNC):** HGNC:12568
- **NCBI Entrez:** 29979
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000135146
- **OMIM:** 300264
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q8IYK8
- **Aliases:** N/A

### AA Mutation list and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID

- Some mutations of the UBQLN2 gene with their types and dbSNP IDs are given below:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| ----------- | -------------| -------- |
| R5G | Missense | rs148917008 |
| P497T | Missense | rs1057518891 |
| Y488C | Missense | rs55832507 |
| S360A | Missense | rs1057518812 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- Currently there are no known somatic SNVs or InDels in the UBQLN2 gene with dbSNP IDs.

### Related Disease

- Mutations in the UBQLN2 gene have been linked to a neurodegenerative disorder known as X-linked amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). UBQLN2 mutations are also associated with Paget's disease of bone.

### Treatment and Prognosis

- At present there is no cure or treatment for UBQLN2-linked ALS. However, current treatments focus on the alleviation of symptoms and to improve the quality of life of the affected individuals. Prognosis is typically poor, with most cases having a life expectancy of only a few years.

### Drug Response

- Currently there is no standard drug response for the treatment of UBQLN2-linked ALS. However, several experimental drugs are being studied in clinical trials to improve the effectiveness of treatment plans.

### Related Papers

- Fecto F, Siddique T. UBQLN2/P62 cellular recycling pathways in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia. Muscle Nerve. 2018 Apr;57(4):550-562. doi: 10.1002/mus.26090. Epub 2017 Oct 25. PMID: 28851017.
- Bursch F, Joshi PR, Nijssen J, von Einem B, Klose J, Krauß S, Japtok J, Weis J, Roßbach A, Thal DR, Lingor P, Petri S. Combined Proteasome and Autophagy Inhibition in the hSOD1G93A Mouse Model of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. Front Mol Neurosci. 2019 Feb 20;12:43. doi: 10.3389/fnmol.2019.00043. PMID: 30837836; PMCID: PMC6392230.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**