---
title: "NIPA1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene NIPA1"
tags: ['NIPA1', 'HereditarySpasticParaplegia', 'MagnesiumHomeostasis', 'NeuronalFunction', 'GeneticVariation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'IndividualizedMedication', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene NIPA1

## Genetic Position 
- Chromosome 15
- Gene coordinates: 21,916,502 - 21,949,627 bp
- Strand: Plus strand

## Pathology
Variants in the NIPA1 gene have been linked to hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP), a rare genetic disorder that affects nerve cells in the spinal cord. The HSP manifests with symptoms such as hypertonicity and weakness of the lower limbs, which progresses slowly over time. 

## Function 
NIPA1 gene encodes a membrane protein known to be involved in magnesium homeostasis, which is necessary for proper neuronal function. It also interacts with other proteins and regulates protein trafficking within cells.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 7758
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 25886 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000128801
- OMIM: 608145
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H2P0
- Aliases: SPG6, KIAA0969, NPAL1

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.637C>T(p.Arg213Trp); rs121434592
- c.743delG (p.Glu248Aspfs*8); rs387907326

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no known somatic mutation identified for this gene in any database.

## Related Disease
Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) is a related disease that is caused by genetic variation in the NIPA1 gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for HSP. The treatment options focus on relieving symptoms, physical therapy, and counseling. The prognosis for HSP varies depending on the severity of the symptoms, but the disease does not usually affect life expectancy. 

## Drug Response
There is no standard treatment for HSP, and the response to medication is often individualized and varies by the patient.

## Related Papers
- Subject: "NIPA1 mutation in complex hereditary spastic paraplegia with epilepsy."
  - Author: Depienne C, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000312377.86427.ae
- Subject: "Early-onset parkinsonism and DYT6 are caused by the same ATP13A2 variant."
  - Author: Ramirez A, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2006.12.043

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**