---
title: "RHPN2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for RHPN2 "
tags: ['RHPN2', 'HepatocellularCarcinoma', 'GTPbindingprotein', 'ActinDynamics', 'MissenseMutation', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticPosition']
---

# Gene Information for RHPN2 

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Genetic Position:** RHPN2 gene is situated on chromosome 14q11.2.
- **Pathology:** Abnormal levels of RHPN2 have been linked to cancer, specifically hepatocellular carcinoma.
- **Function:** RHPN2 gene codes for Rhophilin-2, a GTP-binding protein that plays a role in actin dynamics, cell shape, and motility.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Location
- **External IDs:** 

|HGNC | NCBI Entrez | Ensembl | OMIM | UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot |
|:----:|:----:|:------:|:-----:|:---------:|
|15942 | 10081 | ENSG00000132556 | 612247 | Q9NZM9 |

- **Aliases:** Rho GTPase-binding protein RHOBP2, Putative MAPK-activating protein PM08, Dendritic cell protein RhoHOU, FAM66A.
- **Location:** RHPN2 gene is located on chromosome 14q11.2.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- There are various AA mutations associated with RHPN2, which are as following:
    - W168X (Trp168Ter) - dbSNP ID: rs1242029397
    - D389N (Asp389Asn) - dbSNP ID: rs147189547
- The mutation type for both variants is Missense.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are somatic SNVs/InDels in RHPN2 gene, which are mentioned below:
  - c.1048T>G - dbSNP ID: rs558293040
  - c.969G>A - dbSNP ID: rs372633146

## Related Disease
- Abnormal expression of RHPN2 is associated with the development of hepatocellular carcinoma.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- As RHPN2 is associated with hepatocellular carcinoma, the treatment options depend upon the stage and severity of cancer.
- The prognosis is generally poor in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.

## Drug Response
- There is limited evidence available on the drug response linked to RHPN2.

## References:
- Karthikeyan Muthusamy et al. (2016). Rho A-Dependent Upregulation of the Hsp90α Gene by Hepatitis B Virus X Protein Stimulates the Proliferation of Hepatocytes. 
DOI: 10.3390/v8070206
- NCBI. Rho GTPase-binding protein 2 (RHPN2). [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/10081)
- UniProt. Rhophilin-2. [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/Q9NZM9)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**