---
title: "SLC10A2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## **Gene Information**"
tags: ['SLC10A2', 'BileAcidTransporter', 'PrimaryBileAcidMalabsorption', 'GeneticMutations', 'DrugResponse', 'IntestinalEpithelialCells', 'BileAcidSequestrants', 'ChronicDiarrhea']
---

## **Gene Information**

### **Gene Name:** SLC10A2

SLC10A2 gene encodes for sodium/bile acid cotransporter (ASBT), which is responsible for bile acid uptake from the intestinal lumen.

### **External IDs:** 

- Genomic Location: Chr 13: 104,438,464-104,503,161
- Gene ID (HGNC): 10957
- NCBI Entrez ID: 6555
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000070018
- OMIM ID: 601295
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q12908

### **Aliases:**

- Apical sodium-dependent bile acid transporter
- Ileal sodium-dependent bile acid transporter 

## **Mutations**

### **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**

The SLC10A2 gene has multiple mutations, and some of them can have a pathogenic effect on the gene function. The following are some frequently observed mutations:

| **AA Mutation** | **Mutation Type** | **dbSNP ID** |
| :-------------: | :-------------: | :-------------: |
| R65C | Missense | rs72551305 |
| P174L | Missense | rs137852713 |
| D245N | Missense | rs121918565 |
| V339L | Missense | rs149801652 |
| G338R | Missense | rs137853888 |

### **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**

There are limited studies that discuss somatic mutations in SLC10A2 gene.

## **Function**

 The SLC10A2 encodes for a transmembrane protein, apical sodium-dependent bile acid transporter (ASBT), which is responsible for the uptake of bile acids from the intestinal lumen. ASBT is located on the surface of intestinal epithelial cells and is essential for resorbing bile acids. 

## **Related Diseases**

Defects in SLC10A2 gene are known to be associated with primary bile acid malabsorption (PBAM) (OMIM: 613291), which is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that causes chronic diarrhea in infants resulting in which necessary acids cannot be absorbed which causes a disturbance in the digestive system.

## **Treatment and Prognosis**

Currently, treatment for PBAM involves the use of bile acid sequestrants such as cholestyramine to limit diarrhea. Vitamin supplements may also be prescribed to compensate for nutrient deficiencies. There is no permanent cure for this condition, and treatment is focused on alleviating the symptoms.

## **Drug Response**

Studies show that some mutations in SLC10A2 gene can affect bile acid uptake and can modify the response of bile acid sequestrants treatment in patients. In some cases, tailored therapy can be recommended on the basis of genetic mutations.

## **References**

- Dawson, P. A., & Karpen, S. J. (2015). Intestinal transport and metabolism of bile acids. Journal of lipid research, 56(6), 1085-1099.
- "SLC10A2 solute carrier family 10 member 2 [Homo sapiens (human)] - Gene - NCBI". www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
- Acalovschi, M., & Tirziu, S. (2015). Primary bile acid malabsorption. Journal of gastroenterology and hepatology research, 4(6), 1729-1734.
- Anwer, M. S., & Stieger, B. (2014). Sodium‐dependent bile salt transporters of the SLC10A transporter family: more than solute carriers. Pflügers Archiv-European Journal of Physiology, 466(1), 77-89.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**