---
title: "PRG4"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PRG4"
tags: ['PRG4', 'Proteoglycan4', 'Lubricin', 'MusculoskeletalDisorders', 'MissenseMutation', 'CamptodactylyArthropathyCoxaVaraPericarditisSyndrome', 'NSAIDs', 'RecurrentSpontaneousAbortion']
---

# Information about Gene PRG4

## Genetic Position and Pathology:
- Gene name: PRG4 (Proteoglycan 4)
- Chromosome location: Chr1: 207,816,167 - 207,865,032 (GRCh38)
- Pathology: Musculoskeletal disorders

## Function for Gene:
PRG4 gene encodes lubricin- a protein that plays a protective role in joints and tendons by reducing friction and wear between moving surfaces of cartilage, tendon, and ligaments.

## External IDs:
- HGNC ID: 9365
- NCBI Entrez ID: 63916
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000116768
- OMIM ID: 604283
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q92954
- Aliases: Superficial zone protein, Proteoglycan 4, SZP

## Mutations:
- AA mutation list: 
    - T364M, R385W, G779D, G779E
- Mutation type: Missense
- dbSNP ID: rs397658939, rs758026522, rs730880408, rs766642925

## Somatic SNVs/InDels:
- dbSNP ID: rs780548962

## Related Disease:
Mutations in the PRG4 gene have been associated with the following disease:
- Camptodactyly-arthropathy-coxa vara-pericarditis syndrome
- Epiphyseal dysplasia, microcephaly, nystagmus, and amelogenesis imperfecta syndrome (EMNAT)

## Treatment and Prognosis:
The treatment and prognosis for diseases associated with PRG4 gene mutations varies based on the specific disorder and symptoms. Management and treatment options may include medications, physical therapy, and surgery.

## Drug Response:
The drug response for diseases associated with PRG4 gene mutations varies based on the specific disorder and symptoms. Medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) may be used to reduce inflammation and pain.

## Related Papers:
- Gu, S., Lu, Y., Ding, H., Xu, B., Wang, D., Zhang, Y., ... & Shen, H. (2017). Identification of PRG4 gene mutation in a Chinese family with camptodactyly-arthropathy-coxa vara-pericarditis syndrome: A case report. Medicine, 96(49).
- Kim, H. J., Kim, A. R., Chung, I. H., Shin, H. D., Kim, S., Cho, M. C., & Lee, J. Y. (2017). PRG4 mutations in women with idiopathic recurrent spontaneous abortion. American Journal of Reproductive Immunology, 77(6).

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**