---
title: "CENPJ"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Analysis of Gene CENPJ"
tags: ['CENPJ', 'Microcephaly', 'CellDivision', 'GeneticDisorder', 'Mutation', 'SymptomsManagement', 'Prognosis', 'TherapeuticTargets']
---

# Analysis of Gene CENPJ

## Genetic Position
CENPJ gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 13 (13q12.12). It spans about 266.3 kb and consists of 26 exons.

## Pathology
CENPJ is associated with Microcephaly 13, Primary, Autosomal Recessive (MCPH13), which is a rare genetic disorder characterized by reduced head circumference, developmental delays, intellectual disability, and other neurological abnormalities.

## Function
CENPJ encodes Centromere protein J, which is involved in cell division. This protein is essential for the formation and maintenance of centrosomes, which are responsible for organizing and distributing chromosomes during cell division.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 18917
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 261734
- Ensembl: ENSG00000121410
- OMIM: 609279
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5SZQ9

Aliases: 
- CPAP
- CPAP1
- SCKL4

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
Some mutations in the CENPJ gene have been reported as pathogenic. Here are some examples with dbSNP ID and mutation type:

| AA mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|------------|
| p.Arg589* | nonsense | rs753938756 |
| p.Asn456Ser | missense | rs766523236 |
| p.Arg458* | nonsense | rs750997938 |
| p.Arg683* | nonsense | rs753861970 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
The following somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported in the CENPJ gene:

| Mutation | dbSNP ID |
|----------|------------|
| c.653G>A | rs201096448 |
| c.2010A>G | rs369068758 |
| c.790C>T | rs200968341 |

## Related Disease
MCPH13 is caused by mutations in the CENPJ gene. Some common symptoms of this disease are reduced head circumference, intellectual disability, speech delays, and abnormal brain development.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no definitive treatment for MCPH13, but some of the symptoms can be managed with proper medication and therapy. The prognosis for this disease depends on the severity and extent of symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is no specific drug developed for the treatment of MCPH13. However, certain drugs may be used to manage symptoms associated with this disorder.

## Related Papers
- Author: Shaheen R, et al.
  - Title: Bi-allelic variants in MYRF cause autosomal recessive primary microcephaly. 
  - DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddy277.

- Author: Wheway G, et al.
  - Title: A genome-wide siRNA screen for modifiers of mutant ciliopathy phenotypes reveals novel therapeutic targets for cystic kidney disease.
  - DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddv108.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**