---
title: "PDE6B"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## **Information about gene PDE6B** "
tags: ['PDE6B', 'RetinitisPigmentosa', 'GeneTherapy', 'VisualAids', 'SmallMoleculeInhibitors', 'Phototransduction', 'InheritedDisorder', 'VisionLoss']
---

## **Information about gene PDE6B** 

### **Genetic Position**
- PDE6B is located on chromosome 4 (4p16.3)

### **Pathology**
- Mutations in the PDE6B gene have been associated with retinitis pigmentosa (RP), which is an inherited disorder that damages the light-sensitive cells in the retina, leading to vision loss. 

### **Function for gene**
- The PDE6B gene encodes for the beta subunit of the cyclic GMP (cGMP)-binding phosphodiesterase (PDE) enzyme, which plays a crucial role in the phototransduction process in the retina. 

### **Aliases and External IDs**
- Aliases: RP40
- HGNC ID: 8809
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 5146
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000138635
- OMIM ID: 180072 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P35913

### **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**
- c.1609G>A (p.Gly537Arg) - rs104894003
- c.184C>T (p.Arg62Ter) - rs121918327
- c.949C>G (p.Leu317Val) - rs121918327
- c.233G>T (p.Asp78Tyr) - rs104893998
- c.1483C>T (p.Pro495Leu) - rs121918328

### **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**
- Not applicable

### **Related Disease**
- Retinitis pigmentosa (RP)

### **Treatment and Prognosis**
- There is currently no cure for retinitis pigmentosa. Supportive treatments such as vitamin A supplements, visual aids, and lifestyle changes can help slow the progression of the disease and manage symptoms. 
- Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disease. Some individuals may experience only mild vision loss, while others may suffer from complete blindness. 

### **Drug Response**
- RP therapies targeting PDE6B are currently being investigated, including gene therapy and small-molecule inhibitors of PDE6B. 

### **Related Papers**
- Subject: Gene therapy for retinitis pigmentosa caused by mutations in PDE6B
- Author: Byrne, L.C., Dalkara, D., Luna, G., et al.
- DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1118847109

- Subject: Mutational hotspot in the PDE6B gene in causes autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa
- Author: Zobor, D., Zrenner, E., & Kohl, S.
- DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2010.01953.x

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**