---
title: "USP9X"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information for USP9X "
tags: ['USP9X', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Autism', 'Seizures', 'BrainMalformations', 'DeubiquitinatingEnzyme', 'MissenseMutations']
---

## Gene Information for USP9X 
### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: X
- Start position: 107,414,391
- End position: 107,526,384
- Strand: Positive

### Pathology
USP9X is a gene that encodes a de-ubiquitinating enzyme. Mutations in this gene have been linked to several neurological disorders, including intellectual disability, autism, seizures, and brain malformations.

### Function
USP9X regulates the stability and activity of several proteins involved in various cellular processes such as DNA damage response, cell cycle progression, and neuronal development.

### External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 8239
- HGNC ID: 12662
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000163250
- OMIM ID: 300072
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: O94804
- Aliases: DFFRX, RP11-170A5.10, FAF, FAM, Fat facets in Drosophila homolog of, DFFRX

### Mutation Information
- AA Mutation List: Several missense mutations have been found in USP9X such as c.376C>T (p.Arg126Cys), c.1981C>T (p.Pro661Ser), c.2149C>T (p.Arg717Cys), and c.2677A>G (p.Gln893Arg).
- Mutation Type: Missense mutations
- dbSNP ID: rs587782786, rs281864842, rs121918001, rs369203426

### Related Diseases
Mutations in USP9X have been linked to several neurological disorders including intellectual disability, autism, seizures, microcephaly, and brain malformations.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for USP9X-related disorders. Treatment is mainly supportive and focused on managing symptoms. The prognosis for patients with USP9X-related disorders varies depending on the severity of the symptoms and associated conditions.

### Drug Response
There is no known drug response for USP9X-related disorders.

### References
- Shoukier M et al. (2013) Mutations in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathway cause par-tial lissencephaly. Am J Med Genet A 161A(11):2842–2852.
- Reijnders MRF et al. (2016) De novo mutations detected bywhole-exome sequencing implicates synaptic vesicle cycling genes in autism. Psychiatric Genetics 26(5):218-227. 
- Hu H et al. (2016) X-exome sequencing of 405 unresolved families identifies seven novel intellectual disability genes. Mol Psychiatry 21(1):133-48.  

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**