---
title: "LHX4"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene LHX4"
tags: ['GeneLHX4', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'PituitaryGlandDevelopment', 'MissenseMutation', 'PituitaryHormoneDeficiency', 'TreatmentOptions', 'GeneticCounseling', 'HormoneReplacementTherapy']
---

# Information about gene LHX4

## Gene Position and General Information
- Gene: LHX4
- External IDs: HGNC: 6599; Entrez Gene: 89869; Ensembl: ENSG00000166554; OMIM: 602146; UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60656
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 1q25
- Aliases: LIM homeobox protein 4, Lim-4, Homeobox protein Lhx4

## Function for gene
The LHX4 gene encodes a transcription factor that belongs to the LIM homeobox family. It plays a critical role in the development of the pituitary gland and the central nervous system during embryonic development. Additionally, it also regulates the expression of genes involved in cell growth and differentiation.

## Variations/Mutations
- AA mutation list: p.Arg236Gln, p.Arg236Trp
- Mutation Type: Missense
- dbSNP ID: rs80338826, rs764051321, respectively

## Related Diseases
- Pituitary hormone deficiency, combined, 3 (CPHD3)
- Pituitary stalk interruption syndrome (PSIS)

## Treatment and Prognosis
 Treatment and prognosis depend on the severity of the symptoms and may include surgery, hormone replacement therapy, and genetic counseling. Early diagnosis and treatment may improve the outcome for affected individuals.

## Drug Response
 There is no specific drug treatment for LHX4 gene-related disorders. Treatment usually involves hormone replacement therapy to maintain hormone balance.

## Related Papers
- Subject: LHX4 mutations in familial and sporadic congenital hypopituitarism
- Author: Pfaffle R et al.
- DOI: 10.2337/db06-0331

- Subject: LHX4 mutations in patients with combined pituitary hormone deficiency impair the activation of different pituitary promoters
- Author: Pulichino AM et al.
- DOI: 10.1210/me.2007-0312

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**