---
title: "MEGF10"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: MEGF10"
tags: ['MEGF10', 'MuscularDystrophy', 'CellAdhesion', 'Phagocytosis', 'GeneticDisorders', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene: MEGF10

### Genetic Position
The gene MEGF10 (Multiple epidermal growth factor-like domains protein 10) is located on the long arm of chromosome 5 (5q23.1).

### Pathology and Function
MEGF10 encodes a protein that is involved in cell adhesion and phagocytosis. The protein contains multiple epidermal growth factor-like domains and a transmembrane region, suggesting it plays a role in receptor-mediated signaling. Mutations in this gene have been associated with muscular dystrophy, a group of genetic disorders that cause muscle weakness and degeneration.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 21308
- NCBI Entrez: 85441
- Ensembl: ENSG00000164523
- OMIM: 607782
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96JB5

Aliases: DKFZp761M1321, FLJ10109, MEGF10-DT

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
The following are some of the amino acid (AA) mutations and mutation types associated with MEGF10 gene:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|------------|--------|
|p.Val643Leu|Missense|rs750344615|
|p.Ile9LeufsTer16|Frameshift|rs397514642|
|p.Gly665Val|Missense|rs771633276|
|p.Glu637Lys|Missense|rs373236495|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are somatic SNVs/InDels associated with MEGF10 gene, some of which are listed below with their respective dbSNP ID:

|SNV/InDel|dbSNP ID|
|---------|--------|
|c.386_389delAGTA|rs775679024|
|c.4113-5T>C|rs771148315|
|c.3118C>A|rs144506819|
|c.3583G>A|rs868330012|

### Related Disease
Mutations in MEGF10 gene have been associated with various forms of muscular dystrophy, including:

- Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2R (LGMD2R)
- Congenital muscular dystrophy type 1H (MDC1H)

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no specific treatment or cure for muscular dystrophy caused by MEGF10 mutations. Treatment is focused on managing the symptoms and improving the quality of life. The prognosis varies depending on the type and severity of the muscular dystrophy.

### Drug Response
There is currently not enough information on the drug response of MEGF10 mutations.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Mutations in MEGF10 gene as a cause of the congenital muscular dystrophy MDC1H
  - Author: Bolduc et al.
  - DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddl029
  - Link: [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17200152/)

- Subject: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy: one gene with many faces
  - Author: Straub et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/ana.21602
  - Link: [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18306240/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**