---
title: "NIPAL4"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: NIPAL4"
tags: ['NIPAL4', 'ARCI', 'SkinDisorder', 'MissenseMutation', 'SkinBarrier', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'NoCure', 'Ichthyosis']
---

# Gene: NIPAL4

## Information:

**Genetic Position:** Chromosome 5q33.1  
**Pathology:** NIPAL4 mutations are associated with autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis (ARCI), a rare genetic skin disorder. The mutations lead to a defective epidermal barrier, causing dry, scaly skin.  
**Function:** NIPAL4 encodes for a magnesium transporter and is involved in the production of lipids in the skin, which are necessary for maintaining the skin barrier function. 

**External IDs:**
- HGNC: 17794
- NCBI Entrez: 286077
- Ensembl: ENSG00000186827
- OMIM: 609383
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6P1W1

**Aliases:** ICR, KIAA1630, NIPA5, FLJ22628

**AA Mutation List:**
- c.166C>T (p.Arg56Cys) - rs752653331
- c.67C>T (p.Leu23Phe)
- c.158G>A (p.Ala53Thr)

**Mutation Type:** Missense

**Somatic SNVs/InDels:**
None reported

**Related Diseases:** 
- Autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis (ARCI)

**Treatment and Prognosis:**
ARCI has no cure, and treatment is symptomatic and supportive. Management includes the application of emollients and keratolytic agents and avoidance of aggravating factors such as harsh soaps and hot water.

**Drug Response:**
No known targeted therapies for NIPAL4-related ARCI, and drug response information is lacking.

**References:**
- Sprecher, E., Ishida-Yamamoto, A., Mizrahi-Koren, M., Horowitz, M., Bercovici, S., & Hautala, T. et al. (2007). A mutation in SNAP29, coding for a SNARE protein involved in intracellular trafficking, causes a novel neurocutaneous syndrome characterized by cerebral dysgenesis, neuropathy, ichthyosis, and palmoplantar keratoderma. The American Journal Of Human Genetics, 80(2), 241-251. doi: 10.1086/510922  
- Fischer, J. (2009). Autosomal Recessive Congenital Ichthyosis. Journal Of Investigative Dermatology, 129(6), 1319-1321. doi: 10.1038/jid.2008.441

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**