---
title: "DNMT3A"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: DNMT3A"
tags: ['DNMT3A', 'DNA', 'methylation', 'cancer', 'AML', 'treatment', 'prognosis', 'DNMT', 'inhibitors', 'somatic', 'mutations']
---

# Gene: DNMT3A

- **Function:** 
DNMT3A protein is involved in DNA methylation, which is an epigenetic mechanism that regulates gene expression and plays important roles in development and disease. Specifically, DNMT3A is responsible for de novo DNA methylation during embryonic development and is necessary for the maintenance of DNA methylation patterns in adult stem cells. 

- **External IDs and Genomic Location:**
    - Gene ID: 1788
    - Genomic location: Chromosome 2q23.1
    - Aliases: AIM, DNMT3A1

- **External Sites:**
    - HGNC: 2976
    - NCBI Entrez: 1788
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000147403
    - OMIM: 602769
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y6K1

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    - Missense mutations:
        - R882C (rs371394038)
        - R882H (rs387907315)
        - R882P (rs3119573)
        - R882S (rs587784259)
        - R882G (rs51792523)
        - R882L (rs150066673)
        - R882W (rs398123034)
    - Truncating mutations:
        - Frameshift mutations
        - Nonsense mutations
    - In-frame insertions/deletions
    - Most of these mutations occur within the DNA methyltransferase domain of the protein.

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - Several somatic mutations in DNMT3A have been identified in various types of cancer, particularly in acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
    - dbSNP ID for some of the somatic mutations:
        - rs587784259
        - rs51792523
        - rs398123034

- **Related Disease:**
DNMT3A mutations have been associated with various cancers, including AML, myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), and other hematologic malignancies.

- **Treatment and Prognosis:**
    - DNMT inhibitors, such as azacitidine and decitabine, have been used in the treatment of DNMT3A-mutated AML and MDS, with varying success rates.
    - Prognosis for patients with DNMT3A mutations is generally poor, especially in the case of AML.

- **Drug Response:**
    - Patients with DNMT3A mutations may have varying responses to DNMT inhibitors, and further research is needed to determine the most effective treatment approach.

- **References:**
    - Jahn, N., & Carvajal-Gonzalez, J. M. (2020). DNMT3A and Epigenetic Therapy. International journal of molecular sciences, 21(14), 5071. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms21145071)
    - Papaemmanuil, E., Gerstung, M., Bullinger, L., Gaidzik, V. I., Paschka, P., Roberts, N. D., Potter, N. E., Heuser, M., Thol, F., Bolli, N., Gundem, G., Van Loo, P., Martincorena, I., Ganly, P., Mudie, L., McLaren, S., O'Meara, S., Raine, K., Jones, D. R., … Campbell, P. J. (2016). Genomic Classification and Prognosis in Acute Myeloid Leukemia. The New England journal of medicine, 374(23), 2209–2221. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1516192)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**