---
title: "LHFPL6"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on gene LHFPL6"
tags: ['LHFPL6', 'GeneFunction', 'DFNB67', 'HearingLoss', 'MutationAnalysis', 'SomaticVariants', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information on gene LHFPL6

## General Information
- **Gene Name:** LHFPL6
- **Aliases:** TMHS, DFNB67
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 10 (10q21.1)
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 24068
    - NCBI Entrez: 145226
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000170345
    - OMIM: 611565
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8TCY5

## Function
The LHFPL6 gene encodes for lipoma HMGIC fusion partner-like 6 protein, which is involved in the development of hair cells in the inner ear. It is also suggested to be involved in the maintenance of the stereocilia bundle and the regulation of mechanotransduction.

## AA mutations
- p.Arg24Gln - rs768249793
- p.Ser164Phe - rs145062469
- p.Gly112Ser - rs376333327
- p.Gly112Ala - rs750545799

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels in LHFPL6.

## Related Diseases
DFNB67 is the only known disease associated with LHFPL6 mutations, which is an autosomal recessive hearing loss disorder. This disease is characterized by profound congenital hearing loss.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no known cure or specific treatment for DFNB67. Patients with this disorder should be treated with hearing aids or cochlear implants to manage hearing loss.

## Drug Response
There is no known drug response associated with LHFPL6 mutations.

## Related Studies
- *Mutation analysis of TMC1 identifies four novel mutations and reveals intronic mutations linked to non-syndromic hearing loss in an Iranian recesive population*. Ebrahimi-Fakhari et al., (2010). PMID: 20457855.
- *Whole exome sequencing identifies a homozygous mutation in LHFPL6 causing autosomal-recessive non-syndromic hearing loss (DFNB67)*. Santos-Cortez et al., (2014). PMID: 24591712.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**