---
title: "NUTM1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene NUTM1"
tags: ['NUTM1', 'ChromosomalTranslocation', 'NUTcarcinoma', 'EpigeneticRegulation', 'TargetedTherapy', 'PoorPrognosis', 'BETinhibitors', 'HDACinhibitors']
---

## Gene NUTM1
- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 15q14; base pairs 32722686 to 32730709
- **Pathology:** Chromosomal Translocation t(15;19)(q14;p13.1) is associated with a rare aggressive form of squamous cell carcinoma called NUT carcinoma
- **Function:** NUTM1 encodes a protein called Nuclear Protein In Testis (NUT) which is involved in epigenetic regulation and chromatin remodeling during development.
- **External IDs:** HGNC: 20780, NCBI Entrez: 254316, Ensembl: ENSG00000282431, OMIM: 608763, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q86Z18
- **Aliases:** JAMM1, NUT, NUT1 
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    - No AA mutations have been linked with NUT carcinoma or other associated diseases.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - No SNVs/InDels have been linked with NUT carcinoma or other associated diseases.
- **Related Disease:** NUT carcinoma, characterized by NUTM1 rearrangements, is a rare aggressive cancer with poor prognosis. It affects various organs, and identification of the translocation partner is crucial for diagnosis.
- **Treatment and Prognosis:** There are no specific targeted treatments for NUT carcinoma. Treatment is limited to chemotherapy and radiation therapy, which have shown poor response rates and overall survival. The prognosis for NUT carcinoma is generally poor, with a median survival of less than one year.
- **Drug Response:** There are a few clinical trials ongoing for potential targeted therapy for NUT carcinoma, including BET inhibitors and HDAC inhibitors, but there is limited data on their efficacy. 
- **Subject, Author Name, DOI Links to Related Papers:**
    - Feasibility and efficacy of the combination of radiation therapy and immune checkpoint inhibitors for NUT carcinoma - [DOI: 10.1007/s11523-019-00635-8](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11523-019-00635-8))
    - Emerging targeted therapies for NUT carcinoma - [DOI: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2018.09.016](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.oraloncology.2018.09.016))
    - Diagnostic and therapeutic advances in NUT midline carcinoma - [DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2018.02.002](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.critrevonc.2018.02.002))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**