---
title: "CTNND1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: CTNND1"
tags: ['CTNND1', 'GeneFunction', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'SomaticVariants', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'CellMigration']
---

## Gene: CTNND1

### Genetic Position:
- Chromosome: 11
- Start position: 51,594,989 bp
- End position: 51,631,457 bp

### Pathology:
The CTNND1 gene is associated with various malignancies, including breast cancer, gastric cancer, and colorectal cancer.

### Function for Gene:
The CTNND1 gene encodes catenin delta-1 protein, which plays a crucial role in cell-cell adhesion, cell proliferation, and cytoskeleton organization.

### External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases:
- Gene ID: 1500
- Genomic location: 11q11
- Aliases: p120 Catenin, p120(ctn)

### External Websites:
- HGNC: HGNC:2398
- NCBI Entrez: 1499
- Ensembl: ENSG00000121691
- OMIM: 601045
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y6N7

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
There are several missense mutations reported in the CTNND1 gene. Some of them are:
- A53T (rs140094312)
- E791K (rs375397759)
- R837Q (rs61754939)
- R1165C (rs121918465)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- c.1780C>T (rs147268857)
- c.2042G>A (rs149552460)
- c.2252G>A (rs138642800)

### Related Disease:
Aberrant expression of the CTNND1 gene is associated with several malignancies, including breast cancer, gastric cancer, and colorectal cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis:
Treatment options for cancers associated with the CTNND1 gene are based on the specific malignancy and its stage. Prognosis varies greatly depending on the cancer type and stage.

### Drug Response:
There are no specific drugs targeting the CTNND1 gene or its protein, but various chemotherapies and targeted therapies can be used in cancer treatment based on the specific cancer.

### Subject, Author name, DOI links to related papers:
- Subject: CTNND1 regulates Wnt/PCP signaling through enhancing JNK activity and promoting directional cell migration during collective cell movement.
- Author name: Liu Y, Gao X, Wu X, et al.
- DOI link: [10.4161/cc.29487]([Click](https://doi.org/10.4161/cc.29487))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**