---
title: "SMPX"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information"
tags: ['GeneSMPX', 'DilatedCardiomyopathy', 'Cardiomyocytes', 'GeneLocation', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment', 'RelatedPapers', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene Information

## Gene SMPX

### Pathology
SMPX is associated with dilated cardiomyopathy in humans.

### Function
SMPX is a protein-coding gene that plays a critical role in regulating the mechanical properties of cardiomyocytes.

### Gene Location and IDs
- Chromosome: X
- NCBI Entrez ID: 23657
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000147237
- HGNC ID: 20382
- OMIM ID: 300226
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q8N5F9
- Aliases: DJ1098A5.1, DXS1071E.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

No mutations were found for SMPX gene.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

No somatic SNVs/InDels were found for SMPX gene.

### Related Disease
- Dilated Cardiomyopathy

### Treatment and Prognosis
The prognosis for individuals with dilated cardiomyopathy associated with the SMPX gene is dependent on the severity of the condition. Treatment may include medications to control symptoms, such as beta-blockers and ACE inhibitors, or heart transplant in severe cases.

### Drug Response
There is no known drug response associated with the SMPX gene.

### Related papers
- Subject: SMPX gene and dilated cardiomyopathy
- Author: Coppini R, Ferrantini C, Yao L, Fan P, Del Lungo M, Stillitano F, Sartiani L, Tosi B, Suffredini S, Tesi C, Yacoub M, Olivotto I, Belardinelli L, Poggesi C.
- DOI: 10.1161/ CIRCRESAHA.112.276519.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**