---
title: "ABHD12"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene ABHD12"
tags: ['ABHD12', 'PHARCsyndrome', 'genetics', 'neurology', 'lipidmetabolism', 'raredisease', 'mutation', 'treatment']
---

# Information about gene ABHD12

## Genetic position, pathology, and function

- **Genetic position:** ABHD12 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 20, specifically in the 20p11.21 region.

- **Pathology:** Variants in the ABHD12 gene have been associated with polyneuropathy, hearing loss, ataxia, retinitis pigmentosa, and cataract (PHARC) syndrome, a rare autosomal recessive disorder.

- **Function:** The ABHD12 gene encodes a protein called alpha/beta hydrolase domain-containing protein 12, which is involved in the breakdown of lipids. Specifically, ABHD12 is responsible for breaking down an endocannabinoid called 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and is highly expressed in the nervous system.

## External IDs and aliases

- **External IDs:** HGNC: 23273, NCBI Entrez: 115501, Ensembl: ENSG00000124177, OMIM: 613690, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8TEQ8.

- **Aliases:** The ABHD12 gene is also known by its other names, including PHARC, ABHD12B, alpha/beta hydrolase domain-containing protein 12B, and FLJ22184.

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

- The NCBI ClinVar database reports 288 variants in the ABHD12 gene that are associated with PHARC syndrome. These variants include missense, nonsense, frameshift, and indel mutations.

- Some of the missense mutations reported are: 
    - p.Arg323Gly (rs375258036)
    - p.Asp134Val (rs137853769)
    - p.Gly112Arg (rs137853768)
    
## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- There are currently no reported somatic mutations in the ABHD12 gene in the dbSNP database.

## Related disease

- Variants in the ABHD12 gene have been linked with PHARC syndrome, a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by peripheral neuropathy, hearing loss, ataxia, retinitis pigmentosa, and cataracts.

## Treatment and prognosis

- There is currently no cure for PHARC syndrome, and treatment is focused on managing the symptoms associated with the disorder. 
- Some treatments that have been used in PHARC syndrome patients include hearing aids, cataract surgery, and physical therapy to improve gait and balance.

## Drug response

- There is currently no specific drug or treatment available that targets the underlying genetic cause of PHARC syndrome.

## Related papers

- Maier et al. (2013). Exome sequencing identifies a novel missense mutation in the EFEMP1 gene as a cause of autosomal dominant drusen in a large family. PLoS One, 8(8), e73408. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0073408
- Truini et al. (2019). Longitudinal Changes in Pain and Disease Severity in Patients with Inherited Neuropathies. The Journal of Pain, 20(5), 574-582. doi: 10.1016/j.jpain.2018.09.011

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**