---
title: "SULT4A1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: SULT4A1"
tags: ['SULT4A1', 'Sulfotransferase', 'SNPs', 'Neurodegeneration', 'Enzyme', 'Chromosome22', 'Function', 'Mutation']
---

# Gene: SULT4A1

## Genetic Position
SULT4A1 is located on the long arm of chromosome 22 (22q13.2).


## Pathology and Function
SULT4A1 encodes for an enzyme called sulfotransferase 4A1, which catalyzes the transfer of a sulfuryl group to various substrates. Currently, the function of the gene is not well understood and research is ongoing to determine its significance in various biological processes.


## External IDs
- HGNC: 18114
- NCBI Entrez: 286703
- Ensembl: ENSG00000204572
- OMIM: 612028
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6IMN6

Aliases: SPG18A, MGC14832


## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Currently, there are no known disease-causing mutations in SULT4A1. However, some single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been identified:
- R96Q (rs3745943)
- R45W (rs1805329)
- V54M (rs56274500)


## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is limited data available on somatic variants in SULT4A1.


## Related Disease
Currently, no diseases have been linked to mutations in SULT4A1.


## Treatment and Prognosis
As the function of SULT4A1 is not well understood, there are no current treatment options or prognosis for any associated diseases.


## Drug Response
Currently, there is no data on drug response and SULT4A1.


## Related Papers
- Subject: Functional annotation of human SULT4A1 in relation to brain development and neurodegeneration
  - DOI: 10.1111/jnc.15679
  - Author: K. S. Dhakal, et al.
- Subject: Characterization of the Human Sulfotransferase Sulfotransferase 4A1 and Its Transcriptional Regulation by Two Peroxisome Proliferator-activated Receptors
  - DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M110.201012
  - Author: P.H. Palkar, et al.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**