---
title: "HDAC8"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene HDAC8"
tags: ['HDAC8', 'GeneFunction', 'GenomicLocation', 'MissenseMutation', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Information about Gene HDAC8

## Genetic Position and Genomic Location
- The HDAC8 gene is located on chromosome X at position q13.1.
- Genomic Location: NC_000023.11 (22096203..22102720)

## Pathology and Function
- **Function**: The HDAC8 gene provides instructions for making a protein that belongs to the histone deacetylase family of enzymes. This protein is involved in the regulation of gene expression. It helps to remove acetyl groups from the histone proteins in the chromosomes, allowing the DNA to coil more tightly around them. This coiling makes it more difficult for the genes to be transcribed and, therefore, less active. 

- **Related Disease**: Mutations in the HDAC8 gene can lead to various diseases such as X-linked intellectual disability (XLID), Cornelia de Lange syndrome (CdLS) and Schimke immuno-osseous dysplasia (SIOD). 

## External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs: HGNC:4853, NCBI Entrez:2638, Ensembl:ENSG00000136531, OMIM:300269, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:Q9UBN7
- Aliases: HDACL1, RPD3, WTSFL, ZMYND21

## AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Y306C (missense mutation): rs28929474
- p.W183C (missense mutation): rs79704543
- p.D101H (missense mutation): rs397514495

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are various treatments for diseases caused by mutations in HDAC8, including medication, surgery, physical therapy, and occupational therapy. However, the prognosis of these diseases depends on the severity of the symptoms and the age of onset in individuals.

## Drug Response
HDAC inhibitors are currently being studied as potential drugs for the treatment of diseases caused by mutations in HDAC8. These inhibitors can potentially block the activity of HDAC8 and, consequently, increase the expression of genes that are important for normal physiological processes.

*Note:* This is general information and treatment and drug response may vary on an individual basis. 

## Related Papers
- Subject: Molecular analysis of HDAC8 mutations identified in a cohort of patients with Cornelia de Lange Syndrome
  - Author: Deardorff, Matthew A. et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2011.02.012
- Subject: Structural basis for inhibition of the histone deacetylase HDAC8 by 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-based inhibitors
  - Author: Vannini, Alessio et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.str.2009.01.013

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**