---
title: "ETNPPL"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene ETNPPL"
tags: ['GeneETNPPL', 'Chromosome1q24.2', 'OrganicCompoundBiodegradation', 'SomaticMutations', 'BreastCancer', 'ColorectalCancer', 'LungCancer', 'MitochondrialRespiratoryChainCapacity']
---

# Information about Gene ETNPPL

## Genetic Position
The gene ETNPPL is located on Chromosome 1q24.2.

## Pathology
Currently, there are no known genetic pathologies associated with mutations in ETNPPL.

## Function
ETNPPL encodes for the ethane 1,2-dioxygenase P1 subunit-like protein, which has been shown to have a role in the biodegradation of organic compounds in certain bacteria.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 23231
- NCBI Entrez: 131401
- Ensembl: ENSG00000198230
- OMIM: 613479
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6ZRS3

Aliases: 
- KIAA1841
- PRO1122

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several reported somatic mutations for ETNPPL in various cancers, including breast cancer, colorectal cancer, and lung cancer, among others. 

One example of a somatic mutation in ETNPPL is a missense mutation, p.His220Arg (dbSNP ID: rs148858782), which has been reported in breast cancer samples.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
In addition to the p.His220Arg mutation mentioned above, there are several other reported somatic SNVs and InDels in ETNPPL in various cancers. Some examples include: 
- c.685_688del (p.Asp229fs) in colorectal cancer (dbSNP ID: rs1556353077)
- c.1520C>T (p.Arg507Ter) in lung adenocarcinoma (dbSNP ID: rs753547914)
- c.1418+5G>A in basal cell carcinoma (dbSNP ID: rs769023627)

## Related Disease
Currently, there are no known genetic diseases associated with mutations in ETNPPL.

## Treatment and Prognosis
As there are no known diseases associated with ETNPPL mutations, there is no specific treatment or prognosis related to this gene. 

## Drug response
There is no reported drug response related to ETNPPL.

## Related Papers
- Author: Park, K.
  - "Genetic alterations of ETHE1 and ETNPPL in human cancer: functional studies and clinical implications"
  - DOI: 10.1007/s12032-016-0864-x
- Author: Li, Y.
  - "ETNPPL is a novel tissue-specific normalizer of mitochondrial respiratory chain capacity"
  - DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1904618116

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**