---
title: "WNT7A"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene WNT7A"
tags: ['WNT7A', 'SkeletalAbnormalities', 'WNTSignaling', 'AlAhramiyahSyndrome', 'SymptomaticManagement', 'Prognosis', 'LimbMalformations', 'MutationAnalysis']
---

# Information about Gene WNT7A

## Genetic Position
WNT7A is located on the long arm of chromosome 3 (3q26.31). 

## Pathology
Mutations in the WNT7A gene can result in a variety of skeletal abnormalities such as limb malformations, among others. 

## Function
WNT7A belongs to the WNT family of signaling proteins that regulate cell growth, differentiation, and development.

## External IDs
- HGNC:12800
- NCBI Entrez:7476
- Ensembl:ENSG00000144851
- OMIM:601570
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:O00755

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.313G>C (p.Arg105Pro) rs745039711
- c.776G>A (p.Gly259Asp) rs786201713

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.206C>T (p.Arg69Ter) rs1553266486
- c.352T>C (p.Leu118Pro) rs757994788

## Related Disease
Mutations in WNT7A have been associated with Al-Ahramiyah Autosomal Recessive Syndrome (OMIM: 617809).

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment for WNT7A-related disorders, and management is usually symptomatic. Prognosis depends on the severity and distribution of the skeletal abnormalities.

## Drug Response
There is currently no information on drug response related to WNT7A mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: A novel homozygous nonsense WNT7A mutation underlying severe limb malformations.
  - Author name: Elalaoui SC, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10048-017-0547-5)
  
- Subject: Mutations in WNT7A cause a range of limb malformations, including Fuhrmann syndrome and Al-Ahramiyah developmental dysplasia of the limb.
  - Author name: Woods CG, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng1284)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**