---
title: "WDR36"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information of Gene WDR36"
tags: ['GeneWDR36', 'Glaucoma', 'TrabecularMeshwork', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'Research']
---

# Information of Gene WDR36

## Genetic Position
- Genomic location: Chromosome 5q22.1
- Pathology: Mutations of the WDR36 gene have been associated with the prevalence of primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) 

## Function for Gene
- The WDR36 gene encodes a protein that is a member of the WD-repeat (WDR) protein family, and it helps maintain the structural integrity of the trabecular meshwork.
- The trabecular meshwork is responsible for fluid drainage in the eye, so defects in the WDR36 gene can lead to increased intraocular pressure, causing glaucoma

## External IDs
- HGNC: 12643
- NCBI Entrez: 11052
- Ensembl: ENSG00000113520
- OMIM: 609669
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y6E0

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg388His (rs1046804)
- p.Gly367Arg (rs121434266)
- p.Val471Met (rs142606826)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- None reported

## Related Diseases
- Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no cure for POAG, but treatment can help to slow progression and preserve vision. Treatment options include medications, laser therapy, and surgery.
- The prognosis for individuals with POAG varies based on factors such as age, general health, and the severity of the condition at the time of diagnosis.

## Drug Response
- There is currently no specific drug tailored to the type of the WDR36 mutation that causes POAG.

## Related Papers 
- Sundaresan P et al. "WDR36 variants in India-associated primary open-angle glaucoma." Am J Ophthalmol. (2010) PMID: 20801425
- Fan BJ et al. "Association of polymorphisms of tumor necrosis factor and tumor protein p53 with primary open-angle glaucoma." Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. (2010) PMID: 19933198

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**