---
title: "SS18"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: SS18"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'GeneSS18', 'SynovialSarcoma', 'ChromatinRemodeling', 'TranscriptionalRegulator', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'ClinicalTrials']
---

# Gene: SS18

## Information

- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 18:25,188,001-25,220,000
- **Pathology:** SS18 gene has been found to be associated with malignant synovial sarcoma (MSS).
- **Function:** SS18 is a transcriptional regulator that is involved in chromatin remodeling and in the regulation of RNA polymerase II-mediated transcription. It interacts with SWI/SNF complex proteins to regulate gene expression during development.
- **External IDs and Aliases:**
  - HGNC: 11272
  - NCBI Entrez: 6877
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000147889
  - OMIM: 600192
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q93000
  
## Genetic variations

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Lys -> Gln | Missense | rs138032341 |
| Arg -> Ser | Missense | rs879255481 |
| Glu -> Gln | Missense | rs864309668 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

| Mutation Type | dbSNP ID | Disease |
| --- | --- | --- |
| SNV | rs72417594 | Synovial sarcoma |
| SNV | rs72417598 | Synovial sarcoma |
| SNV | rs72417595 | Synovial sarcoma |
| SNV | rs72417597 | Synovial sarcoma |

## Related Disease

SS18 gene is associated with malignant synovial sarcoma (MSS), which is a rare type of soft tissue cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Clinical trials are ongoing to determine the effectiveness of various treatments for synovial sarcoma that target SS18 protein. Current treatment options for synovial sarcoma include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. The prognosis for synovial sarcoma depends on various factors, such as location, stage, and size of the tumor.

## Drug Response

The potential drug response for synovial sarcoma that targets SS18 protein is still under investigation.

## Related Papers

- **Subject:** Identification of a SYT/SSX2 fusion transcript in synovial sarcoma.
  - **Author:** Clark J, Rocques PJ, Crew AJ, Gill S, Shipley J, Chan AM, Gusterson BA, Cooper CS.
  - **DOI Link:** 10.1038/bjc.1994.336
  
- **Subject:** Structure-function analysis of ss18-ssx fusion proteins in synovial sarcoma.
  - **Author:** de Bruijn DR, Allander SV, van Dijk AH, Willemse MP, Thijssen J, van den Berg E, Pattynama PM, van der Biezen JJ, van Ommen GJ, van Kessel AG.
  - **DOI Link:** 10.1002/gcc.2840080110

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**