---
title: "AREL1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: AREL1"
tags: ['AREL1', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'NeurodegenerativeDiseases', 'SNPs', 'AlzheimersDisease', 'GeneticVariations', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: AREL1

## Information
- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 10q22
- **Pathology:** There is not much known about pathological conditions associated with the AREL1 gene
- **Function:** The AREL1 gene encodes a transcription factor that plays a role in the development of the central nervous system 

## External IDs
- HGNC: 22046
- NCBI Entrez: 157285
- Ensembl: ENSG00000138192
- OMIM: 610376
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BXL6

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are several SNPs present in the AREL1 gene. Some of the SNPs and their mutation types are as follows:

| **Mutation Type** | **dbSNP ID** | **AA Mutation** |
|-------------------|--------------|-----------------|
| Single Nucleotide Polymorphism | rs13440610 | T/C |
| Single Nucleotide Polymorphism | rs7948895 | G/A |
| Single Nucleotide Polymorphism | rs74455434 | G/A |
| Single Nucleotide Polymorphism | rs78959932 | T/C |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no known association of AREL1 with any somatic SNV/InDel.

## Related Diseases
There is limited information available on the association of the AREL1 gene with diseases. Only a few studies have reported its possible role in the development of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no known treatment for genetic mutations or variations in AREL1 gene. Its prognosis is still unclear, and more research is needed to understand its clinical significance.

## Drug Response
There is no known drug response associated with the AREL1 gene.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Analysis of AREL1 gene polymorphisms in Alzheimer's disease
  - Author: Zhang M, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2013.01.011
  
- Subject: AREL1 regulates growth factor independence 1 transcription factor expression in pancreatic cancer cells
  - Author: Kim DY, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2009.03.125

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**