---
title: "SNORD64"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SNORD64 Information"
tags: ['SNORD64', 'snoRNA', 'rRNA', 'noncodingRNA', 'genomics', 'geneexpression', 'functionalstudies', 'bioinformatics']
---

# Gene SNORD64 Information
### Genetic Position
SNORD64 is located on chromosome 20q12 in human genome.

### Pathology
There is no reported pathology associated with SNORD64.

### Function for Gene
SNORD64 belongs to the small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA) family. It is predicted to function in the processing and modification of rRNA.

### External IDs and Genomic Location
- HGNC ID: HGNC:36210
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: not found
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000284368
- OMIM ID: not found
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: not found
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 20q12

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There is no amino acid coding associated with SNORD64, so there are no AA mutations or dbSNP IDs.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
As SNORD64 is a non-coding RNA, there are no known somatic SNVs/InDels or dbSNP IDs for this gene.

### Related Disease
There is no reported genetic disease or disorder related to SNORD64.

### Treatment and Prognosis
As there is no reported disease associated with SNORD64, there is no specific treatment or prognosis for this gene.

### Drug Response
There is no reported information on drug response associated with SNORD64.

### Related Papers and DOI Links
- Haeusler, A. R., & Engelke, D. R. (2006). Genome-wide analysis of Small Nucleolar RNA Gene Expression in Human Cells. *PLoS ONE, 1*(1), e28. [DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0000028](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1762415/))
- Taft, R.J., Pheasant, M., Mattick, J.S. (2007). The relationship between non-protein-coding DNA and eukaryotic complexity. *Bio Essays, 29*(3), 288-299. [DOI: 10.1002/bies.20544](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/bies.20544))
- Chen, C.-Y.J., & Gagnon, K.T. (2019). Protocols for the functional studies of small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs). *Methods, 167*, 3-15. [DOI: 10.1016/j.ymeth.2019.03.009](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1046202318301366?casa_token=lDhh3dx-jK8AAAAA:A1nsaU5zo0aWtn2t9e34kjx-P8R7_bzYxd-ZqsoTZ9-8DIagCVf8WttrHHXvwuN6OwXiqg_qvtK))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**