---
title: "PRB1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: PRB1"
tags: ['PRB1', 'SalivaryProtein', 'SjögrensSyndrome', 'OralHealth', 'GeneticAssociation', 'SymptomRelief', 'NoCure', 'Periodontitis']
---

# Gene: PRB1

### Position:

- Chromosome: 19
- Location: p13.2
- Strand: minus

### Pathology:

PRB1 is associated with salivary gland diseases, such as Sjögren’s syndrome.

### Function:

PRB1 encodes a protein called "Salivary proline-rich protein 1". This protein is a major component of saliva and plays a role in maintaining oral health by protecting teeth from bacterial decay.

### External IDs and Aliases:

- HGNC: 9353 
- NCBI Entrez: 5548 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000104852 
- OMIM: 170500 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P28369 
- Aliases: SPR1, SPRB1 

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:

There are no known amino acid mutations for PRB1.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
 
There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels for PRB1.

### Related Disease:

PRB1 is associated with Sjögren’s Syndrome.

### Treatment and Prognosis:

Currently, treatment for Sjögren's syndrome is aimed at relieving symptoms. There is no cure for this condition. Prognosis can vary depending on the severity of the disease.

### Drug Response:

There are currently no drugs specifically targeted towards PRB1.

### Related papers:

- Subject: Genetic association between PRB1 Gene polymorphisms and Sjögren's Syndrome 
  - Author: Shu-Fang Wu 
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0212951)
- Subject: PRB1 and PRH1 expression in saliva and stool of healthy individuals and patients with periodontitis
  - Author: Qian Liu et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0232179)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**