---
title: "ABI3BP"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ABI3BP"
tags: ['GeneABI3BP', 'Cancer', 'CellAdhesion', 'Apoptosis', 'Angiogenesis', 'Prognosis', 'SomaticVariants', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene ABI3BP

## Genetic Position
The ABI3BP (ABI family member 3 binding protein) gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 3 at position 3q22.3.

## Pathology
The ABI3BP gene has been implicated in various cancers, and its expression has been found to be downregulated in certain malignancies, including bladder cancer. It has been suggested that decreased expression of this gene may contribute to cancer progression and metastasis.

## Function
The function of the ABI3BP gene appears to be complex and not fully understood. It has been shown to play a role in several cellular processes, including cell adhesion, apoptosis, and angiogenesis.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 27492
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 339157
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000114861
- OMIM ID: 613882
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q8IWZ6
- Aliases: SHIP2IP, ABIIP, 3BP-1, C3orf58, FLJ13835

## AA Mutation List
There are currently no known amino acid mutations for the ABI3BP gene in human populations.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
Several somatic variants have been identified in the ABI3BP gene, including SNVs and InDels. Some of these variants are listed below with their corresponding dbSNP IDs:
- rs4611395
- rs7547195
- rs7700787
- rs6763061

## Related Disease
The downregulation of ABI3BP expression has been linked to several types of cancer, including bladder cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, and squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.

## Treatment and Prognosis
As ABI3BP is still not well understood, there are no specific treatment options or prognostic indicators related to this gene.

## Drug Response
No drug response information is available for the ABI3BP gene at this time.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** Downregulation of ABI3BP expression promotes tumor progression and predicts poor prognosis in bladder urothelial carcinoma.
- **Author:** Chen Q, Lin D, Yao WY, et al.
- **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0119472)
- **Subject:** ABI3BP expression in non-small cell lung cancer: A potential prognostic factor.
- **Author:** Kang X, Dong Z, Cui J, et al.
- **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.3892/or.2017.6092)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**