---
title: "GBE1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene GBE1 Information "
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'GBE1Gene', 'GlycogenStorageDiseaseTypeIV', 'Enzyme', 'Mutations', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'RareDisease']
---

# Gene GBE1 Information 

## Genomic Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Genomic Position:** The GBE1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 3 (3p12.2) and spans 64 kb of genomic DNA.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in the GBE1 gene have been associated with glycogen storage disease type IV (GSD IV). GSD IV is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that affects the body's ability to store and release glycogen, which is used for energy. 
- **Function:** The GBE1 gene encodes the enzyme glycogen branching enzyme (GBE), which is involved in glycogen synthesis. GBE catalyzes the transfer of oligosaccharide units from one chain of glycogen to another, creating branches in the glycogen molecule. 

## Gene Information
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 4180 
    - NCBI Entrez Gene: 2632 
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000114861 
    - OMIM: 607839 
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P54840
- **Aliases:** 
    - 1,4-alpha-glucan-branching enzyme 
    - AGL branching enzyme 
    - GB enzyme 
    - GBE 
    - GSD4 
    - glycogen branching enzyme 1 
    - glycogen storage disease type IV, liver 

## Mutations
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:** 
    - c.7G>A p.Trp3Ter (rs886041005)
    - c.587C>T p.Arg196Ter (rs1555852780)
    - c.647G>A p.Arg216His (rs188221184)
    - c.931T>C p.Leu311Pro (rs775899887)
    - c.1469G>A p.Gly490Asp (rs104894408)
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No somatic SNVs/InDels have been identified in the GBE1 gene to date.

## Related Disease
- **Disease Name:** Glycogen storage disease type IV (GSD IV)
- **Symptoms:** Symptoms of GSD IV can vary widely depending on the age of onset and severity of the disease. Common symptoms include liver enlargement, liver and muscle dysfunction, hypotonia, and developmental delays.
- **Inheritance:** GSD IV is an autosomal recessive disorder, which means an affected individual must inherit two copies of the mutated GBE1 gene (one from each parent) to develop the disease.
- **Prevalence:** GSD IV is a rare disease, with an estimated prevalence of 1 in 1,000,000 individuals worldwide.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- **Treatment:** There is currently no cure for GSD IV, and treatment is symptomatic and supportive. Treatment options may include a high-protein diet, glucose therapy, and enzyme replacement therapy. In severe cases, a liver transplant may be necessary.
- **Prognosis:** The prognosis for individuals with GSD IV varies depending on the age of onset and severity of the disease. In some cases, GSD IV can be life-threatening during infancy or early childhood. However, with proper management and treatment, many individuals with GSD IV can go on to lead relatively normal lives.

## Drug Response 
- There is limited information available on drug response in individuals with GSD IV.

## References
- Chen YT, Burchell A. Glycogen Storage Diseases. The Metabolic and Molecular Bases of Inherited Disease. 2001:1521-1551.
- National Organization for Rare Disorders. Glycogen Storage Disease Type IV. Available at: [Click](https://rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/glycogen-storage-disease-type-iv/.) Accessed on 31 August 2021.
- UniProt Consortium. UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P54840. Available at: [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/P54840.) Accessed on 31 August 2021.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**