---
title: "PDE4B"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: PDE4B"
tags: ['PDE4B', 'Phosphodiesterase', 'Inflammation', 'Autoimmunity', 'Schizophrenia', 'DrugResponse', 'Mutation', 'Disease']
---

## Gene: PDE4B

### Pathology and Function

PDE4B is a phosphodiesterase enzyme that hydrolyzes the secondary messenger molecule cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and controls intracellular signaling pathways. PDE4B plays a critical role in the regulation of inflammation and immune responses. Abnormalities in the PDE4B gene have been associated with various diseases, including cancer, autoimmunity, and schizophrenia.

### Gene Information

- External IDs: 

  - HGNC: 8783

  - NCBI Entrez: 5141

  - Ensembl: ENSG00000107404
  
  - OMIM: 600129

  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q07343
  
- Genomic Location: 1p31.3

- Aliases: DPDE4B, DPDE4, HSPDE4B, PDE4
  

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
  
| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|--------------|----------|
| A112V       | SNP          | rs4945053 |
| S219S       | SNP          | rs2271293 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

| SNV/Indel   | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|----------|
| 1:106572709 | rs560498083 |

### Related Diseases

Mutations in the PDE4B gene have been implicated in various diseases, such as:

- Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)

- Asthma

- Psoriasis

- Rheumatoid Arthritis

- Schizophrenia

### Treatment and Prognosis

The treatment of PDE4B-related diseases usually involves the use of PDE4 inhibitors, which are known to suppress inflammation and immune responses. The prognosis for these diseases depends on the severity of the condition and the response to therapy.

### Drug Response

PDE4 inhibitors such as Roflumilast and Apremilast have been approved for the treatment of COPD, asthma, and psoriasis. These drugs have shown promising results in clinical trials and may also have potential for the treatment of other PDE4B-related diseases.

### Related Papers

- Author: Jing Liu, Lina Zhang, Jiaqi Li, et al.

  Title: [PDE4B mediates the adhesion of multiple myeloma cells to bone marrow stromal cells via the PDE4D-Rap1 signaling pathway.]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.omtn.2021.02.018))
  
- Author: Howard Collier, Eliezer Masliah

  Title: [The Cyclic AMP Signaling System in Parkinson’s Disease]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6941201/))

- Author: Shoichiro Ohyama, Tsuyoshi Murase

  Title: [Phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitors for the treatment of inflammatory diseases]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pharmthera.2021.107977))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**