---
title: "PLSCR3"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene PLSCR3"
tags: ['PLSCR3', 'PhospholipidScramblase', 'GeneFunction', 'SNPs', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'GenomicLocation']
---

# Gene PLSCR3

## Summary
PLSCR3 (Phospholipid scramblase 3) is a gene located on the short arm of chromosome 8 (8p23.3). The PLSCR3 protein is a member of the phospholipid scramblase family that plays an essential role in membrane trafficking and viral infection.

### Function for gene
The exact function of PLSCR3 is not yet fully understood, but it is believed to be involved in lipid metabolism, signal transduction, and protein transport across the membrane. Recent studies have suggested that PLSCR3 may also play a critical role in the innate immune response to viral infection.

### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- HGNC: 25617 
- NCBI Entrez: 84886 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000168287 
- OMIM: 615436 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6ZWH5 
- Genomic location: Chromosome 8: 16,915,404-16,923,597 
- Aliases: MGC23445, Phospholipid scramblase 3, Testis-expressed gene 175 protein

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are a few documented non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) in the PLSCR3gene:
- R124H (rs555421845)
- M185R (rs7827144)
- I200T (rs144607526)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Currently, there are no documented somatic SNVs or InDels in the PLSCR3 gene.

### Related Disease
Although there is no specific disease attributed to the mutation of PLSCR3, there are studies regarding the association of this gene expression in particular diseases, for example, cancer and autoimmune diseases.

### Treatment and prognosis
As there are no specific diseases attributed to the mutation of PLSCR3, there are currently no treatment options available. However, studies to understand the exact function of this gene may lead to potential future treatments.

### Drug response
There are no reported drug responses related to PLSCR3.

### Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers
- "Interferon-stimulated gene 15 upregulation by plasmacytoid dendritic cells promotes TLR7-dependent B cell responses" by Kusunoki et. al. DOI: 10.1189/jlb.3A0220-108R 
- "Whole-exome sequencing of human pancreatic cancers and characterization of genomic instability caused by MLH1 haploinsufficiency and complete deficiency" by Waddell et. al. DOI: 10.1038/ng.3390 


 


**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**