---
title: "EPS15"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: EPS15 "
tags: ['EPS15', 'Endocytosis', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis', 'GeneExpression', 'LungAdenocarcinoma']
---

## Gene: EPS15 

- **Function for gene**: EPS15 gene encodes a protein that interacts with several receptors and plays a crucial role in clathrin-coated vesicle formation and the endocytosis of signaling receptors. It also participates in intracellular signaling processes and acts as a regulator of mitosis.

- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases**:
    - Gene ID: 2060
    - Genomic location: Chromosome 1q23.3
    - Aliases: Eps15, UBE4BIP1, AF1P/20, AF3P21, CAGF6, CLAP/RE, CLIQ6, EF1H, epS15, MLLT11BP

- **External sites**:
    - HGNC: 3427
    - NCBI Entrez: 2060
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000162571
    - OMIM: 600051
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P42566 

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**:
    - According to dbSNP, there are a total of 2191 variations for EPS15 gene. The following are a few examples of AA mutations, mutation types, and their respective dbSNP IDs:

        | AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
        |-------------|---------------|-----------|
        | M287I       | Missense      | rs35657422 |
        | S521N       | Missense      | rs369204926|
        | R1346Q      | Missense      | rs144189203|
        | T1155A      | Missense      | rs372289032|

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**:
    - There are a limited number of somatic mutations reported for EPS15. However, some somatic SNVs and InDels are reported in COSMIC database. A few of these somatic mutations with dbSNP IDs are given below:

        |Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
        |-------------|-----------|
        | Missense | COSM8074167|
        | Missense | COSM2656583|
        | Inframe Deletion| COSM2656582|
    
- **Related Disease**:
    - Mutations in the EPS15 gene are associated with various types of cancers including breast cancer, gastric cancer, ovarian carcinoma (OC), and lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD).
    
- **Treatment and Prognosis**:
    - The prognosis of cancer patients carrying mutations in EPS15 remains unclear. However, therapies targeting endocytosis, reducing cell proliferation, and DNA damage seem promising for cancer treatment. 

- **Drug response**:
    - Currently, there are no drugs specifically approved for the treatment of diseases caused by EPS15 mutations. However, some drugs targeting endocytosis like Pitstop 2 and Pitstop 1 have shown therapeutic potential for treating cancers caused by EPS15 gene mutations.

- **Subject, Author Name, DOI Links to related papers**
    - *Title*: Understanding the functional impact of noncoding variation on EPS15L1 expression in lung cancer cells
      *Subject*: Gene Expression
      *Author*: Dan Wang, Feng Zhou and Jianxing He
      *DOI Link*: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12885-021-07870-3)
      
    - *Title*: Mutation analysis of EGFR and related signaling pathway genes in lung adenocarcinomas identifies a novel somatic kinase domain mutation in FGFR4
      *Subject*: Cancer Genetics
      *Author*: Susumu Rokudai, et al.
      *DOI Link*: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cancergen.2016.10.005)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**