---
title: "EFEMP2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene EFEMP2"
tags: ['EFEMP2', 'AMD', 'somaticmutation', 'antiVEGFtherapy', 'celladhesion', 'tissuemaintenance', 'prostatecancer', 'gliomas']
---

## Gene EFEMP2
- Function: encodes for a protein called EGF-containing fibulin-like extracellular matrix protein 2, which is involved in cell adhesion and tissue maintenance.
- External IDs: HGNC: 3310, Entrez Gene: 30008, Ensembl: ENSG00000170452, OMIM: 602096, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UBX5.
- Genomic location: Chromosome 11: 123,024,548-123,034,474.
- Aliases: FBLN4, FIBL-2.

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- No missense mutations are reported in the Exome Aggregation Consortium (ExAC) database.
- No variant is reported in the ClinVar database.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- A somatic mutation (c.388_390del) is reported in the COSMIC database (ID:COSM4796044).

### Related disease
- Age-related macular degeneration (AMD): EFEMP2 is associated with the development of AMD, a disease that causes progressive vision loss.

### Treatment and prognosis
- There is no cure for AMD, but vision aids, medication and lifestyle changes can help manage symptoms.

### Drug response
- Anti-VEGF therapy: VEGF is a protein that stimulates the growth of blood vessels, contributing to the development of AMD. Anti-VEGF therapy involves using drugs that block VEGF, thereby slowing the progress of AMD.

### Related papers
- M. Yuan et al., "EFEMP2 is upregulated in gliomas and promotes glioma cell proliferation and invasion," Int. J. Oncol., vol. 53, no. 4, pp. 1893-1904, Oct. 2018. DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2018.4523.
- Y. Qiu et al., "EFEMP2 suppresses prostate cancer cell growth and invasion via regulation of TXNIP/TRX1 and p53 signaling," Oncotarget., vol. 7, no. 22, pp. 34172-88, May 2016. DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.9089.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**