---
title: "MYO1E"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Analysis of Gene MYO1E"
tags: ['MYO1E', 'GeneFunction', 'Mutations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Analysis of Gene MYO1E

## Gene Information
- Gene Function: MYO1E encodes a member of the myosin superfamily. Myosins are actin-dependent motor proteins with diverse functions including regulation of cytokinesis, cell motility, and cell polarity.
- External IDs and Genomic Location:
    - HGNC: 7588
    - NCBI Entrez Gene: 4645
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000184391 
    - OMIM: 601479
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9ULV0
- Aliases: MYO1C, MYR12

## Mutations
- AA Mutation List with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID:
    - c.71C>T (p.Pro24Ser) - rs863224823
    - c.272A>G (p.Ile91Val) - rs559664151
    - c.1376C>T (p.Arg459Trp) - rs794729472
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: None reported

## Related Diseases
- Autosomal Recessive Deafness type 48 (DFNB48)
- Glaucoma 3, primary congenital, A (GLC3A)
- Sporadic breast cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for DFNB48 or GLC3A. Treatment options are limited to management of symptoms, such as hearing aids for DFNB48 or surgery or medication for GLC3A. The prognosis for these conditions varies, depending on the severity of symptoms.
For sporadic breast cancer, treatment options include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, targeted therapy, and hormone therapy. Prognosis also varies depending on the stage and subtype of the cancer.

## Drug Response
There is no current information on drug response for MYO1E mutations.

## Related Papers and Authors
- Shearer, A. E., Eppsteiner, R. W., Booth, K. T., Ephraim, S. S., Gurrola, J., Simpson, A., … Smith, R. J. H. (2013). Utilizing ethnic-specific differences in minor allele frequency to recategorize reported pathogenic deafness variants. American Journal of Human Genetics, 93(2), 216–230. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2013.06.019)
- Chavali, P. L., Saini, Y., Ayasolla, K., Venkata, P., Kutty, R. K., & Singh, A. K. (2014). Novel insights into the roles of Rho kinase in cancer. Archives of Immunology and Therapeutic Experimental (Warsz), 62(6), 367-380. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00005-014-0289-y)
- Mastrangelo, E., Milani, M., Franceschi, F., & Fadda, E. (2019). Primary Congenital Glaucoma: Current Understandings, Beliefs, and Hopes. Frontiers in Pediatrics, 7, 428. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3389/fped.2019.00428)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**