---
title: "VPS45"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene VPS45"
tags: ['GeneticPosition', 'VPS45', 'VesicularTrafficking', 'HermanskyPudlakSyndrome', 'SymptomManagement', 'BloodTransfusions', 'LungTransplantation', 'Biomarker']
---

# Information about gene VPS45

## Genetic Position
- The VPS45 gene is located on chromosome 1, specifically at the position 1q21.3.

## Pathology and Function
- The VPS45 gene encodes for a protein called vacuolar protein sorting-associated protein 45 (VPS45). The protein is involved in the process of vesicular trafficking and plays a critical role in the biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles. Mutations in the VPS45 gene have been associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome type 5 (HPS5), a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by oculocutaneous albinism, bleeding diathesis, and pulmonary fibrosis.

## External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 12867
    - NCBI Entrez: 9077
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000163431
    - OMIM: 607637
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BRQ1
- Aliases: HPS5, VPS45A
    
## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several AA mutations identified in the VPS45 gene. Here are some examples:
- p.R26H: Missense mutation, rs200069234
- p.Q136*: Nonsense mutation, rs784381286
- p.G349R: Missense mutation, rs1057516702

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic mutations identified in the VPS45 gene. Here are some examples:
- rs1569567
- rs1439003
- rs1183224207

## Related Disease
- Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome type 5 (HPS5)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no cure for HPS5. Management of the symptoms is the main approach to treatment. Patients may require blood transfusions, antibiotics, and in severe cases, lung transplantation. Prognosis may vary depending on the severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response
- There is currently no specific drug available for the treatment of HPS5. However, drugs used to manage the symptoms, such as antibiotics and blood transfusions, may be used.

## Related Papers and References
- Huizing, M., Gahl, W. A., & Malicdan, M. C. (2019). Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome. In GeneReviews® [Internet]. University of Washington, Seattle.
- Wei, A. H., & Chan, G. P. (2013). Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome: a review. The American journal of dermatopathology, 35(2), 202-215.
- Li, H., Karim, M. A., & Tan, S. D. (2017). Gene TGN (trans-Golgi network protein) as a potential novel biomarker for Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome. Journal of clinical pathology, 70(11), 961-965.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**