---
title: "NIN"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: NIN"
tags: ['NINgene', 'microtubuleorganization', 'centrosomematuration', 'missensemutations', 'somaticmutations', 'microcephaly', 'treatmentoptions', 'prognosis']
---

## Gene: NIN

### Function of gene

The NIN gene encodes a protein known as ninein, which plays a crucial role in microtubule organization and centrosome maturation during cell division. It is also involved in the regulation of both normal and abnormal cell proliferation.

### External IDs, aliases, and genomic location

- HGNC: 7667
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 51155
- Ensembl: ENSG00000173811
- OMIM: 608629
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N148

The NIN gene is located on the long arm of human chromosome 14, specifically at the position 14q22.3.

Aliases for NIN gene include centrosome protein NIN, centrosomal protein 68kDa, and ninein-like protein. 

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

The dbSNP database includes more than 800 variations (missense, synonymous, intron, frameshift mutations, etc.) in the NIN gene. Some of the missense mutations, along with their dbSNP ID, are:

- p.Pro876Ser (rs539413055)
- p.Pro922Leu (rs200269546)
- p.Pro100Leu (rs763103504)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

Several somatic mutations have been reported in the NIN gene. For example:

- c.7343_7347delCTCAC (rs1556823367)
- c.937G>A (rs3729826)
- c.8950G>A (rs145147473)

### Related disease

NIN has been implicated in several diseases, including:

- Microcephaly
- Autosomal recessive primary microcephaly (MCPH)
- Seckel Syndrome
- Retinal dystrophy
- Pancreatic cancer
- Breast cancer

### Treatment and prognosis

Currently, there is no specific treatment for NIN-related disorders. Treatment options are generally symptomatic and supportive. In terms of prognosis, the severity of NIN-related diseases depends on the specific mutation and its effects on the protein's function.

### Drug response

There is currently no information available about drug response for NIN-related disorders.

### References and related papers

Seong Eun Park, et al. (2019). NDEL1 and NINL de-regulation in idiopathic short stature as a cause of microcephaly. Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine, 7(8), e00744. DOI: 10.1002/mgg3.744

Manal Eid, et al. (2019). Recurrent NIN mutations in patients with severe microcephaly and skeletal abnormalities reveal biological functions of its N-terminus. Human Molecular Genetics, 28(20), 3457–3474. DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddz173

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**