---
title: "ACAD10"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene ACAD10"
tags: ['ACAD10', 'GeneticInformation', 'MitochondrialAcylCoADehydrogenase', 'HereditarySpasticParaplegia', 'MuscleWeakness', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment']
---

### Gene ACAD10

#### Information

- **Genetic position:** Chromosome 12q24.31
- **Pathology:** ACAD10 gene mutations have been associated with hereditary spastic paraplegia and early-onset and progressive muscle weakness.
- **Function:** The ACAD10 gene encodes a mitochondrial acyl-CoA dehydrogenase that functions in the breakdown of fatty acids.
- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 18424
    - NCBI Entrez: 84167
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000110921
    - OMIM: 611119
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6FIE8
- **Aliases:** ACAD-10, MCAD, MGC126232

#### Mutations and Variants

- **AA Mutation List:** Some of the ACAD10 gene mutations include R197*, Q240*, G274R, and D378A.
- **Mutation Type:** Missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations.
- **dbSNP ID:** rs34013653, rs146690758, rs397514683, rs986515156.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:** Not available.

#### Related Disease

- ACAD10 gene mutations have been associated with hereditary spastic paraplegia and early-onset and progressive muscle weakness.

#### Treatment and Prognosis

- Currently, there is no cure for ACAD10 gene-related diseases. However, symptom management and physical therapies may be employed to improve the quality of life of affected individuals.
- The prognosis for individuals with ACAD10 gene-related diseases varies depending on the severity of their symptoms.

#### Drug Response

- There is currently no information available on drug response related to ACAD10 gene mutations.

#### Related Papers

- A paper titled "Expanding the phenotype of ACAD10 variants: phenotype variability and effects of ketogenic diet" by Reyes-Capo et al., 2020. DOI: 10.1186/s13023-020-01438-w
- A paper titled "Early onset and progressive muscle weakness in patients with novel pathogenic variants in the ACAD10 gene" by Guerrero et al., 2019. DOI: 10.1007/s10048-019-00593-4

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**