---
title: "HYMAI"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene HYMAI"
tags: ['GeneHYMAI', 'XLID', 'IntellectualDisability', 'BrainDevelopment', 'SynapticFunction', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Research']
---

# Information about Gene HYMAI

## Genetic Position
HYMAI gene is located on the long arm of chromosome X (Xq24).

## Pathology
HYMAI gene is associated with X-linked genetic disorders such as intellectual disability.

## Function
The exact function of the HYMAI gene is not well understood, but it is thought to play a role in brain development and synaptic function.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 25003
- NCBI Entrez: 100129294
- Ensembl: ENSG00000261537
- OMIM: -
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: -

**Aliases**: SPANF-C, SPANFC, VEPH1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There is limited information on AA mutation in the HYMAI gene, and no variants have been reported in the dbSNP database as of yet.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is limited information on somatic mutations in the HYMAI gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the HYMAI gene have been associated with X-linked intellectual disability (XLID).

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for XLID, and treatment is focused on managing symptoms and providing support to affected individuals and their families.

## Drug Response
There is limited information on drug response related to the HYMAI gene.

## Related Papers
- Author Name: Kuroda Y, Ohashi I, et al.
	- DOI: 10.1007/s10048-019-00597-1
- Author Name: Chou AK, Chao HT, et al.
	- DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2018.01.033 

**Note**: Additional research is needed to fully understand the role of the HYMAI gene in disease and to discover potential treatments.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**