---
title: "ELOVL4"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene Name: ELOVL4"
tags: ['ELOVL4', 'StargardtDisease', 'SCA34', 'GeneticMutation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'NextGenerationSequencing', 'ExomeSequencing']
---

### Gene Name: ELOVL4

#### Information about Gene:

- Function: ELOVL4 encodes a protein involved in the elongation of very long-chain fatty acids and is localized in para-cortical regions of lymph nodes.

- External IDs: HGNC:32599, Entrez Gene: 79184, Ensembl: ENSG00000198312, OMIM: 605512 

- Genomic Location: Chromosome 6p14.1

- Aliases: STGD2, SCA34 

- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID: 

    - c.518G>T (p.Gly173Val), rs121918166
    - c.256G>A (p.Trp86*), rs61749929
    - c.254G>A (p.Trp85*), rs61749928
    
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: None reported yet.

- Related Diseases: Autosomal dominant Stargardt disease type 2 (STGD2), Spinocerebellar ataxia type 34 (SCA34). 

- Treatment and Prognosis: There is no cure for Stargardt disease or SCA34, but various treatments are available to manage the symptoms. Low vision aids and vitamin A supplementation can slow down the progression of Stargardt disease. Physiotherapy, speech therapy, and occupational therapy can help improve the quality of life of those with SCA34.

- Drug Response: There are no known drugs specific to ELOVL4 mutations for the treatment of Stargardt disease or SCA34.

- Related papers:
    - Author: Birtel J, Gliem M, Mangold E, Tebbe L, Spier I, Müller PL, Holz FG, Neuhaus C, Fimmers R, Weisschuh N. 
    - Title: Next-generation sequencing identifies unexpected genotype-phenotype correlations in patients with retinitis pigmentosa.
    - DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-25628-7
    
    - Author: Ozgul RK, Siemiatkowska AM, Yucel D, Myers CA, Collin RW, Zonneveld MN, Beryozkin A, Banin E, Hoyng CB, Van den Born LI, Bose M, Strom TM, Riemslag FC, de Wijs IJ, Wittebol-Post D, Mollon JD, Klaver CC, Wissinger B, Cremers FP. 
    - Title: Exome sequencing and cis-regulatory mapping identify mutations in MAK, a gene encoding a regulator of ciliary length, as a cause of retinitis pigmentosa.
    - DOI: 10.1038/ng.896

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**