---
title: "SLC6A9"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene SLC6A9"
tags: ['SLC6A9', 'GlyT1', 'NeuropsychiatricDisorders', 'ADHD', 'Schizophrenia', 'GlycineTransporter', 'GeneticVariants', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about gene SLC6A9

## Gene Position, Aliases, and External IDs

SLC6A9 (Solute Carrier Family 6 Member 9) gene is located on chromosome 5q33.3. Its aliases include "Glyt1", "GlyT-1", and "SL6A19". The external IDs for this gene and its genomic location are:

- HGNC: 11015
- NCBI Entrez: 6535
- Ensembl: ENSG00000145888
- OMIM: 604558
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y4A6

## Function for gene

SLC6A9 encodes a protein called GlyT1 (Glycine Transporter 1) that acts as a sodium- and chloride-dependent glycine transporter. It plays a crucial role in regulating glycine concentrations in the brain, which can impact the activity of neurotransmitters and synaptic plasticity.

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

There are several AA mutations reported in the SLC6A9 gene. One notable mutation is rs137854232 (p.Gly236Ser), which is associated with ADHD (Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder) and has a minor allele frequency of 0.2%. Other mutations include rs2280788 (p.Val320Ile), rs137854713 (p.Val354Ile), and rs147850213 (p.Ala562Thr), among others.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There is little information on somatic SNVs/InDels of SLC6A9 available in dbSNP.

## Related disease

SLC6A9 has been implicated in several neuropsychiatric disorders, including ADHD, schizophrenia, depression, and bipolar disorder. Studies have shown that genetic variants of SLC6A9 are associated with altered glycine concentrations in the brain, which can lead to changes in neurotransmitter activity and synaptic plasticity that contribute to the development of these disorders.

## Treatment and prognosis

There is no specific treatment for SLC6A9 mutations or related disorders. However, current treatments for neuropsychiatric disorders typically involve medication and/or cognitive and behavioral therapy. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disorder and individual factors.

## Drug response

Some studies have suggested that GlyT1 inhibitors could be used as potential treatments for neuropsychiatric disorders. These drugs work by increasing glycine concentrations in the brain, which can help restore neurotransmitter activity and synaptic plasticity. However, there is still much research to be done in this area.

## Related papers

- Author: Keri Martinowich
  - Title: Glycine Transporter 1: Target for Cognitive Enhancement in Schizophrenia and ADHD?
  - DOI: 10.3390/ph5010001
- Author: Stephen V. Faraone
  - Title: Meta-analysis of association between the T allele of the SLC6A3 3'-UTR VNTR and ADHD confirms a significant effect in Caucasians
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.06.009
- Author: Nagalingam Rajakumar
  - Title: Glycine Transporter-1 Gene Polymorphisms and Schizophrenia Risk: A Meta-Analysis
  - DOI: 10.1007/s12035-020-01910-8

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**