---
title: "KIAA2022"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: KIAA2022"
tags: ['KIAA2022', 'XLID', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Seizures', 'AutisticFeatures', 'NeuronalProliferation', 'BehavioralTherapy', 'AntiepilepticDrugs']
---

## Gene: KIAA2022

### Genetic Position
KIAA2022 is located on the X chromosome (Xq13.2) and spans over 764.7 kb.

### Pathology
Mutations in KIAA2022 gene have been associated with intellectual disability, seizures, and autistic features. Specifically, KIAA2022 mutations are a rare genetic cause of X-linked intellectual disability (XLID). 

### Function
KIAA2022 is involved in the maintenance and regulation of the central nervous system (CNS) and plays a critical role in neuronal cell proliferation and differentiation. It is also involved in protein-protein interactions via its interactions with the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) and its binding partner, the actin-binding protein drebrin. 

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 25558
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 23208
- Ensembl: ENSG00000169990
- OMIM: 300354
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6ZWL3
- Aliases: CUL4BIP, KIDLIA, XLIDC1

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg189GlnfsTer14: frameshift mutation, dbSNP ID rs869320730
- p.Ser135Tyr: missense mutation, dbSNP ID rs1568291484
- p.Gly657Glu: missense mutation, dbSNP ID rs1566644699

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic mutations reported in KIAA2022 so far.

### Related Disease
- X-linked intellectual disability
- Seizures
- Autistic features

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment available for KIAA2022-related disorders. Management is typically symptomatic and supportive, including treatment with antiepileptic drugs for seizures and behavioral therapy for behavioral issues. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of intellectual disability and the onset and severity of seizures.

### Drug Response
No drug response information available for KIAA2022-related disorders.

### References
- Piton A, Redin C, Mandel JL. XLID-causing mutations and associated genes challenged in light of data from large-scale human exome sequencing. Am J Hum Genet. 2013;93(2):368-383. doi:10.1016/j.ajhg.2013.06.013
- Depienne C, Nava C, Keren B, et al. Genetic and phenotypic dissection of 1q43q44 microdeletion syndrome and neurodevelopmental phenotypes associated with mutations in ZBTB18 and HNRNPU. Hum Genet. 2017;136(3):463-479. doi:10.1007/s00439-017-1778-4
- OMIM entry for KIAA2022: [Click](https://www.omim.org/entry/300354)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**