---
title: "TSFM"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: TSFM"
tags: ['TSFM', 'PontocerebellarHypoplasia', 'NeurologicalDisorder', 'MitochondrialRespiratoryChain', 'MissenseMutations', 'PCH2A', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: TSFM

## Genetic Position:
TSFM is located on the long arm of chromosome 12 (12q14.3), from base pair 67,611,411 to 67,636,172.

## Pathology:
Mutations in TSFM have been linked to Pontocerebellar Hypoplasia Type 2A (PCH2A) which is a rare neurological disorder that affects the brainstem and cerebellum. 

## Function:
TSFM gene provides instructions for making a protein called ‘Tsfm’ which plays a crucial role in the maturation of mitochondrial transfer RNA (tRNA) molecules and helps in the correct assembly of the mitochondrial respiratory chain.

## External IDs:
- HGNC: 29384
- NCBI Entrez: 23236
- Ensembl: ENSG00000125091
- OMIM: 606473
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y3B4

## AA Mutation List:
The following are some of the recorded missense mutations in the TSFM gene with their respective dbSNP IDs:

| Mutation | dbSNP ID |
|----------|----------|
| L9F | rs7822944 |
| P56L | rs866220739 |
| A95S | rs80358225 |
| K120E | rs140086021 |
| A127T | rs61747913 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels:
There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels in TSFM gene.

## Related Disease:
Mutations in TSFM have been associated with Pontocerebellar Hypoplasia Type 2A (PCH2A) which is an autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disease. The symptoms of PCH2A include intellectual disability, microcephaly, respiratory compromise, seizures, and visual impairment.

## Treatment and Prognosis:
Currently, there is no cure available for PCH2A; the treatment can only alleviate the symptoms. The prognosis for this disease varies depending on the severity of the condition.

## Drug Response:
No drug response data is available for TSFM.

### References:

1. OMIM. (2021). *PONTOCEREBELLAR HYPOPLASIA, TYPE 2A; PCH2A.* Retrieved from: [Click](https://www.omim.org/entry/606471)
2. NCBI. (2021). *TSFM Thymidylate Synthetase, Mitochondrial [Homo sapiens (human)].* Retrieved from: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/23236)
3. Berger, I., Ben-Shachar, S., Dor-Wolman, T., Shaag, A., Gavra, M., Zenvirt, S., Heimer, G., & Elpeleg, O. (2011). Mitochondrial complex I deficiency caused by a deleterious NDUFA11 mutation presents as a Leigh syndrome-like phenotype. *Human genetics*, 129(5), 5-14. doi: 10.1007/s00439-010-0919-4

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**