---
title: "SFTPA1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: SFTPA1"
tags: ['SFTPA1', 'SurfactantProteinA', 'LungFunction', 'GeneticMutations', 'PulmonaryFibrosis', 'RespiratoryDistressSyndrome', 'TreatmentSupportive', 'PoorPrognosis']
---

## Gene: SFTPA1

- Function: The SFTPA1 gene encodes a protein called surfactant protein A (SP-A) which is involved in the surfactant complex formation in the lungs, which is essential for normal lung function and respiration.

- External IDs: HGNC: 10760, NCBI Entrez: 653509, Ensembl: ENSG00000176475, OMIM: 178634, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P35247

- AA mutation list: There are several mutations reported in the SFTPA1 gene, including missense, nonsense, frameshift, and splice-site mutations. Some of the most common mutations with their dbSNP ID are:

    - p.Ala116Asp (rs116918813)
    - p.Thr221Profs*9 (rs869320583)
    - p.Gly231Arg (rs116992229)
    - p.Arg216Ser (rs116779750)

- Somatic SNVs/InDels: There are somatic mutations also reported in the SFTPA1 gene in various cancers, including lung adenocarcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, and colorectal cancer, with dbSNP IDs.

- Related Disease: Mutations in the SFTPA1 gene have been associated with familial pulmonary fibrosis, respiratory distress syndrome, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

- Treatment and Prognosis: Treatment for individuals with genetic mutations in SFTPA1 gene is supportive, involving mechanical ventilation and oxygen therapy. However, the prognosis for individuals with genetic mutations in this gene is generally poor.

- Drug Response: There is currently no specific drug available to treat genetic mutations in the SFTPA1 gene.

### References:
- Subject Name: Surfactant protein A1 (SFTPA1) gene variants in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
- Author: Foley KL, et al.
- DOI: 10.1186/s13023-019-1045-2

- Subject Name: Genetic variants in the surfactant protein A genes and risk of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
- Author: Fingerlin TE, et al.
- DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201012-1999OC

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**