---
title: "MSRA"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene MSRA"
tags: ['GeneMSRA', 'OxidativeStress', 'ProteinRepair', 'NeurodegenerativeDiseases', 'CardiovascularDisorders', 'Cancer', 'DrugTargets', 'AgeRelatedDiseases']
---

# Information about Gene MSRA

## Genetic Position
The gene MSRA is located on the chromosome 8p23.1.

## Pathology
The MSRA gene is associated with several diseases, including neurodegenerative diseases, cancer, and cardiovascular disorders.

## Function
The MSRA gene encodes methionine sulfoxide reductase A, an enzyme that plays an essential role in repairing oxidized proteins in the cell.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 7345
- NCBI Entrez: 9122
- Ensembl: ENSG00000120885
- OMIM: 606620
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O94953
- Aliases: MSR, MGC9942 

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Ala277Thr - Missense Variant - rs104894384
- p.Asp217Glu - Missense Variant - rs886037074
- p.Val96Ile - Missense Variant - rs754672954

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.614-20A>G - SNV - rs146671762
- c.346-14C>T - SNV - rs760582088
- c.13+95G>A - SNV - rs78537538

## Related Diseases
- Alzheimer Disease
- Parkinson Disease
- Cardiovascular Diseases
- Cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment options for diseases associated with the MSRA gene are limited since its role is in regulating the oxidative stress response of the cell. Scientists are attempting to develop drugs that target MSRA and regulate the protein repair process in the damaged cells.

## Drug Response
Studies have shown that the protein target of methionine sulfoxide, which is repaired by MSRA, can increase the lifespan of cells. Therefore, scientists are exploring the possibility of developing drugs that target MSRA to prevent age-related chronic diseases.

## References
- Pinto, C., & Drobna, Z. (2020). Methionine sulfoxide reductases: Potential drug targets for age-related diseases. Biomolecules, 10(8), 1174.
- Moskovitz, J., & Flescher, E. (2010). Methionine sulfoxide reductases: ubiquitous enzymes involved in antioxidant defense, protein regulation, and prevention of aging-associated diseases. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA)-Proteins and Proteomics, 1804(2), 246-251.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**