---
title: "SACS"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SACS"
tags: ['SACS', 'ARSACS', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorder', 'MitochondrialFunction', 'ProteinQualityControl', 'CytoskeletalDynamics', 'SpasticAtaxia', 'CharlevoixSaguenay']
---

# Gene SACS

## Genetic Position

The SACS gene is located on chromosome 13q12.12.

## Pathology

Mutations in SACS gene are associated with autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay (ARSACS), a neurodegenerative disorder characterized primarily by cerebellar ataxia, pyramidal tract signs, and peripheral neuropathy.

## Function for Gene

SACS encodes sacsin protein, which is involved in the regulation of mitochondrial function, protein quality control, and cytoskeletal dynamics in neuronal cells.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 10534
- NCBI Entrez: 26278
- Ensembl: ENSG00000079277
- OMIM: 604490
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NZJ4

Aliases: ARSACS, IEC, KIAA1985, SACS1

## AA Mutation List

Some of the reported amino acid (AA) mutations in the SACS gene associated with ARSACS are:

- c.4504A>C (p.Q1502P)
- c.4681C>T (p.R1561*)
- c.5473C>T (p.R1825*)
- c.6371G>A (p.R2124Q)
- c.7093C>T (p.R2365*)

## Mutation Type and dbSNP IDs

The reported mutation types in the SACS gene are mainly missense, nonsense, frameshift, and splice site variants.

Some of the dbSNP IDs associated with SACS mutations are:

- rs1553762954
- rs759091
- rs587777622
- rs786205038

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There is no report of SACS somatic mutations in public databases at this time.

## Related Disease

Mutations in SACS gene are associated with autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay (ARSACS).

## Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no cure for ARSACS, and treatment is focused on managing the symptoms, including physical therapy and mobility aids. The prognosis for ARSACS is variable, and the onset, progression, and severity of symptoms vary among affected individuals.

## Drug Response

There is no information available on drug response related to SACS mutations at this time.

## Related Papers

- Author Name: Mathieu, J. et al.
  - DOI: 10.1136/jmg.2007.054122
  - Title: "ARSACS: a spastic ataxia common in northeastern Quebec, Canada"
- Author Name: Dion, P.A. et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/humu.21238
  - Title: "Validation of a founder spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay (SACS) gene mutation"
- Author Name: Gibrat, C. et al.
  - DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.2008.00982.x
  - Title: "The ARSACS gene encodes a mitochondrial protein"
- Author Name: Larivière, R. et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/mds.20843
  - Title: "Secondary progressive clinical deterioration in an ARSACS patient homozygous for the Quebec Founder Mutation"
- Author Name: Engert, J.C. et al.
  - DOI: 10.1086/428285
  - Title: "ARSACS, a spastic ataxia common in northeastern Québec, is caused by mutations in a new gene encoding an 11.5-kb ORF"

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**