---
title: "SECISBP2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: SECISBP2"
tags: ['SECISBP2', 'Selenoprotein', 'SCA18', 'MERRF', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticInformation', 'NCBI']
---

# Gene Information: SECISBP2

## Genetic Position
- Gene Name: SECISBP2
- Chromosome: 1
- Gene Location: 1p34.3
- Strand: Plus
- Transcript Id(s): NM_033100.5

## Pathology
- Related Disease: Spinocerebellar Ataxia Type 18 (SCA18), Myoclonic epilepsy with ragged-red fibers (MERRF), and Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)
    
## Function
- Function: Involved in the incorporation of selenocysteine into selenoproteins. Necessary for selenoprotein synthesis.
- Alias: 
    - SBP2
    - SelP-binding protein 2
    - SelP-binding protein 2-related protein
    - Selenocysteine insertion sequence-binding protein 2

## External IDs
- HGNC: HGNC:10624
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 203549
- Ensembl: ENSG00000143602
- OMIM: 607093
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NRR4

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- No AA mutation has been reported in the NCBI database.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported in the NCBI database.

## Treatment and prognosis
- No specific treatment and prognosis are reported.

## Drug response
- No drug response is reported.

## Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers
- Mahdieh, N., Rabbani, B., & Ansari, S. (2012). Clinical and molecular aspects of rare syndromes and metabolic disorders. Intractable & rare diseases research, 1(2), 55–72. [Click](https://doi.org/10.5582/irdr.2012.v1.2.55)
- Hunt et al. Selenocysteine insertion sequence binding protein 2L is implicated as a novel post-transcriptional regulator of selenoprotein expression. JOURNAL OF BIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY 280(2):1533-41, 2005. PMID: 15509573
- Forstermann et al. Selenoprotein biosynthesis in mammalian cells: Identification of an RNA sequence element(s) with both stimulatory and inhibitory activity in the translation of mammalian selenoprotein mRNAs that may determine selection of the type of selenocysteine-incorporating species. RNA 2(2):94-102, 1996. PMID: 8604325.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**