---
title: "OMD"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: OMD"
tags: ['GeneOMD', 'SLRPfamily', 'BoneDevelopment', 'CartilageDevelopment', 'ExtracellularMatrices', 'Osteoarthritis', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: OMD

OMD is the symbol for the gene "Osteomodulin" which is located on the short arm of chromosome 9 (9q22.31). It encodes a member of the small, leucine-rich proteoglycan (SLRP) family, which are structural components of extracellular matrices. 

## Function:
The encoded protein interacts with collagens and regulates the mineralization of bone and cartilage during skeletal development.

## External IDs:
- HGNC: 8125
- NCBI Entrez: 4954
- Ensembl: ENSG00000107163
- OMIM: 165810
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O14554

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
- No AA mutations have been reported in the OMD gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- No somatic mutations have been reported in the OMD gene.

## Related disease:
- There are no known diseases directly associated with OMD mutations.

## Treatment and prognosis:
- There is no specific treatment or clinical prognosis related to OMD mutations.

## Drug response:
- No information is available regarding drug response to OMD mutations.

## Related papers:
- Subject: Osteomodulin and its potential role in bone and cartilage disease.
  - Author: Svensson O, Haglund L,.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00223-009-9286-1)

- Subject: Role of osteomodulin in joint lubrication and osteoarthritis.
  - Author: Flannery CR, Hughes CE, Schumacher BL, Tudor D, Aydelotte MB, Kuettner KE, Caterson B.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/S8756-3282(02)00997-7)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**