---
title: "CFB"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene CFB"
tags: ['GeneCFB', 'ComplementFactorB', 'AlternativeComplementPathway', 'Immunodeficiency', 'AHUS', 'ComplementInhibitionTherapy', 'Eculizumab', 'MacularDegeneration']
---

# Gene CFB

## Information

- Gene: Complement Factor B
- Symbol: CFB
- Location: Chromosome 6 
- Alias: BF, BFD, properdin factor B


## Function

The complement factor B is a serine protease that plays an important role in the alternative complement pathway. It cleaves and activates factor 3 (C3) and increases the C3-convertase activity. CFB is synthesized and secreted by the liver and is involved in the immunological response to pathogens.


## External IDs

- HGNC: 1872
- NCBI Entrez: 629
- Ensembl: ENSG00000147520
- OMIM: 138470
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P00751


## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

No AA mutations were found in this gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

No somatic mutations were found in this gene.

## Related disease

Several diseases, mostly related to immunodeficiency and infections, have been associated with CFB mutations or deficiency, including:

- Atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome (aHUS)
- Complement Factor B deficiency (CFBD)
- Age-related macular degeneration (AMD)
- Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)

## Treatment and prognosis

The treatment and prognosis of the diseases associated with CFB mutations depend on the specific condition and its severity. Treatment may involve complement inhibition therapy, immunosuppressants, or antibiotics.

## Drug response

Some studies have shown that complement inhibitors, such as eculizumab, may be effective for treating aHUS and other complement-mediated diseases that involve CFB mutations.

## Related papers

- [Molecular defects in alternative pathway complement proteins in patients with atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome](https://doi.org/10.1182/blood-2008-07-167155))
- [Complement factor B mutations in atypical hemolytic uraemic syndrome (aHUS),](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00467-013-2564-5))
- [Complement Factor B Mutations in Atypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome—Disease-Relevant or Benign?](https://doi.org/10.3390/genes10100827))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**