---
title: "CCKAR"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene CCKAR"
tags: ['CCKAR', 'GastrointestinalDisorders', 'Obesity', 'AnxietyDisorders', 'PancreaticCancer', 'GallbladderCancer', 'DrugResponse', 'Mutation']
---

# Information about Gene CCKAR

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function
The CCKAR gene (cholecystokinin A receptor) is located on chromosome 4q34.1 and encodes the cholecystokinin A receptor protein. This protein is a G protein-coupled receptor that binds the peptide hormone cholecystokinin (CCK) and is involved in the regulation of digestive processes, appetite, and anxiety. Aberrant CCK signaling has been implicated in a variety of diseases including gastrointestinal disorders, obesity, and anxiety-related disorders.

## Function for Gene
The CCKAR gene encodes the cholecystokinin A receptor protein that binds the peptide hormone cholecystokinin (CCK) and is involved in the regulation of digestive processes, appetite, and anxiety.

## External IDs and Aliases
* HGNC: 1922
* NCBI Entrez: 886
* Ensembl: ENSG00000138668
* OMIM: 118450
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P32238
* Aliases: CCK-A receptor, CCK1 receptor, CCKAR1, CCK1R

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) reported in the CCKAR gene. Here are some of the reported SNPs with their mutation type and dbSNP ID:

| Mutation Type | dbSNP ID | Amino Acid Change |
| ------- | ------- | ------- |
| Missense Mutation | rs1800857 | D32E |
| Missense Mutation | rs1800871 | V60L |
| Missense Mutation | rs1800872 | I55V |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are also several somatic SNVs/inDels reported in the CCKAR gene. Here are some of the reported ones with their dbSNP ID:

| dbSNP ID | Mutation |
| ------- | ------- |
| rs55993117 | c.225G>T (p.V75L) |
| rs147423097 | c.971G>T (p.G324C) |

## Related Disease
The CCKAR gene has been implicated in several diseases including gastrointestinal disorders, obesity, and anxiety-related disorders. There are also studies linking aberrant CCK signaling to pancreatic cancer and gallbladder cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Given the role of the CCKAR gene in regulating digestive processes, there have been studies looking at the use of CCKAR antagonists for the treatment of gastrointestinal disorders and obesity. However, more research is needed before these drugs can be widely used.

## Drug Response
There have been studies looking at the use of CCKAR antagonists for the treatment of gastrointestinal disorders and obesity. However, more research is needed before these drugs can be widely used.

## related Paper
* Subject: Cholecystokinin A receptor polymorphism associated with risk for anxiety and depression
* Author name: Neumeister, A et al.
* DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/nn1821)

* Subject: Cholecystokinin Receptors and Gastric Cancer
* Author name: Wang, L et al.
* DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/cancers10110403)

* Subject: CCKA receptor plays a role in pancreatic oncogenesis
* Author name: Strosberg, AD et al.
* DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1200/JCO.2006.08.1624)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**