---
title: "IL6ST"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene IL6ST"
tags: ['IL6ST', 'Interleukin6', 'InflammatoryDiseases', 'GeneticVariations', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'SystemicJuvenileIdiopathicArthritis']
---

## Information about gene IL6ST

### Genetic Position
The IL6ST gene, also known as the Interleukin-6 receptor subunit beta, is located on chromosome 5q11.2.

### Pathology
Mutations in the IL6ST gene have been found to be associated with susceptibility to inflammatory diseases such as systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis and Crohn's disease.

### Function
The IL6ST gene encodes a protein that is a subunit of the interleukin 6 (IL-6) receptor complex. This protein is involved in the transduction of the IL-6 signal from the extracellular to the intracellular environment. The IL-6 signaling pathway is important in regulating the immune response, hematopoiesis, and inflammation.

### External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 5985
- NCBI Entrez: 3570
- Ensembl: ENSG00000113562
- OMIM: 147880
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13064
- Gene location: Chromosome 5q11.2
- Aliases: CD130, gp130, IL6RB

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Asp358Glu (rs73988297)
- p.Asn82Ser (rs151993133)
- p.Ala214Tyr (rs1519658)
- p.Arg352Pro (rs201955295)
- p.His288Arg (rs143900795)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for the IL6ST gene in dbSNP.

### Related Disease
Genetic variations in the IL6ST gene have been associated with susceptibility to inflammatory diseases such as systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis and Crohn's disease.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for mutations in the IL6ST gene. Treatment of symptoms associated with inflammatory diseases is dependent on the severity of the symptoms and can include nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, corticosteroids, and immunosuppressants.

### Drug Response
IL-6 inhibitors, such as tocilizumab, have been used to treat inflammatory diseases that are associated with mutations in the IL6ST gene.

### Related Papers
- "Systematic review of interleukin-6 receptor inhibitors in rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune diseases" by Gossec, L. et al. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1136/annrheumdis-2011-200726))
- "Common genetic association of the interleukin-6 receptor subunit (IL6R) with systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis and rheumatoid arthritis" by Zhang, K. et al. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.569))
- "Interleukin-6 receptor inhibition with tocilizumab and attainment of disease remission in rheumatoid arthritis: A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials" by Singh, J.A. et al. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/acr.22270))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**