---
title: "HLA DPB2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for HLA-DPB2"
tags: ['HLA-DPB2', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'MHCProtein', 'GeneticAssociations', 'RheumatoidArthritis', 'Type1Diabetes', 'ImmunosuppressiveDrugs', 'BiologicTherapies']
---

# Gene Information for HLA-DPB2

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function

- **Genetic Position:** HLA-DPB2 is located on chromosome 6 at 6p21.31.
- **Pathology:** HLA-DPB2 has been associated with certain autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis and Type 1 diabetes.
- **Function:** HLA-DPB2 encodes for a class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) protein, which plays a critical role in the immune system by presenting antigens to T-cells for recognition and destruction of foreign invaders such as bacteria or viruses.

## Gene Identifiers and Genomic Location

- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 4940
    - NCBI Entrez: 3120
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000235473
    - OMIM: 142858
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P20036
- **Aliases:** HLA-DPβ2, DPB2, HLA-DPB1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are multiple amino acid (AA) mutations associated with HLA-DPB2.

|AA Position|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-----------|------------|--------|
|9|A>G|Missense|rs5753219|
|11|G>A|Missense| rs9277534|
|32|C>T|Missense|rs1040975|
|45|T>C|Missense|rs9277535|
|54|C>T|Missense|rs9277536|
|84|C>T|Missense|rs9277537|
|251|C>G|Missense|rs9277540|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no somatic SNVs or InDels for HLA-DPB2 in dbSNP database.

## Related Diseases

HLA-DPB2 has been associated with the following diseases: 

- Rheumatoid arthritis
- Type 1 diabetes

## Treatment and Prognosis

Diagnostic testing for HLA-DPB2 can be used to identify individuals at risk of developing autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis and Type 1 diabetes. Currently, there is no cure for autoimmune diseases. However, treatments including immunosuppressive drugs and biologic therapies can help to manage symptoms and slow disease progression.

## Drug Response

There is limited information regarding drug response specifically related to HLA-DPB2.

## Related Papers

- **Subject**: Genetic Associations with Rheumatoid Arthritis Susceptibility and Treatment Response
- **Author**: Jiaqing Chen, Michael J. Ombrello, Elaine F. Remmers, et al.
- **DOI**: 10.1002/art.40659

- **Subject**: Large-scale gene-centric meta-analysis across 32 studies identifies multiple insulin-related genes associated with adiposity traits
- **Author**: Tuomas O. Kilpeläinen, Tõnu Esko, Reedik Mägi, et al.
- **DOI**: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1003321

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**