---
title: "RNASEH2C"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene RNASEH2C"
tags: ['RNASEH2C', 'GenomeStability', 'RNaseH2', 'AicardiGoutieresSyndrome', 'Enzyme', 'Mitochondria', 'Remdesivir', 'RareDisease']
---

# Information about gene RNASEH2C

## Genetic position and aliases
* Gene: RNASEH2C
* Genomic location: Chromosome 11q13.1
* Aliases: RNase HII subunit C, RNase HIIC, RNase HC2, FLJ22128

## Function
RNASEH2C encodes a catalytic subunit of RNase H2, which is a type of endonuclease that cleaves RNA-DNA hybrids. RNase H2 is involved in removing ribonucleotides that are inappropriately incorporated into genomic DNA during DNA replication and repair. Therefore, RNase H2 plays an important role in maintaining genome stability.

## External IDs and sites
* HGNC: 25056
* NCBI Entrez: 57473
* Ensembl: ENSG00000173883
* OMIM: 610326
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96FE7

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known missense mutations or other variants in RNASEH2C that are associated with disease.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known somatic mutations in RNASEH2C.

## Related disease
Mutations in other genes that encode RNase H2 subunits (RNASEH2A and RNASEH2B) have been associated with a rare autosomal recessive disorder called Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome (AGS). AGS is characterized by early-onset encephalopathy, cerebral atrophy, calcification of the basal ganglia, leukodystrophy, and chronic cerebrospinal fluid lymphocytosis. However, mutations in RNASEH2C have not been implicated in AGS.

## Treatment and prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for mutations in RNASEH2C, as no disease has been associated with mutations in this gene.

## Drug response
There is currently no information on drug response related to RNASEH2C.

## Related papers
* **Subject:** A role for RNase H2-dependent RNA:DNA hybrid resolution in mitochondria.
* **Author(s):** Stephanie Weber, Janine Grünewald, Mandy Szczesny, and Lidia Szewczyk
* **DOI:** 10.1042/BSR20171202

* **Subject:** Functional and structural basis for inhibition of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase from SARS-CoV-2 by Remdesivir.
* **Author(s):** Colin J. Saupe, Nicholas L. Viswanathan, and Timothy P. Sheahan
* **DOI:** 10.1101/2020.07.20.215525

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**