---
title: "ACAD9"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene ACAD9"
tags: ['ACAD9', 'MitochondrialDisorders', 'BetaOxidation', 'Enzyme', 'GeneticMutations', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'WholeExomeSequencing']
---

## Gene ACAD9

### Genetic Position
ACAD9 gene is located on the long (q) arm of chromosome 3 at position 21.1.

### Function
The protein encoded by ACAD9 gene is a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family that is localized in the mitochondrial matrix. It catalyzes the first step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway which involves the multi-step process of breaking down fatty acids into energy.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 21629
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 28976
- Ensembl: ENSG00000164122
- OMIM: 611103
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q709M8

Aliases: Acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family, member 9 (ACAD-9), mitochondrial acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase, and mitochondrial acyl-coA dehydrogenase.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Asp243Val (rs148267590)
- p.Arg450His (rs137852686)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No information available

### Related Disease
Mutations in the ACAD9 gene can cause various diseases. These diseases are collectively known as ACAD9-related disorders. Some of the disorders are encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS), combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency (COXPD), Leigh syndrome, and cardiomyopathy.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for ACAD9-related disorders as of now. Treatment is mostly supportive and includes management of symptoms.

### Drug Response
There is no information available about drug response at present.

### Related Papers
- **Subject:** ACAD9 gene mutations in a Saudi Arabian family with mitochondrial complex I and IV deficiency. 
  - **Author:** Al-Hassnan ZN, Al-Hindi H, Osman ME, Al-Mohaileb FM, Al-Muhaizea MA, Mahmoud A, Al-Sayed M. 
  - **DOI:** 10.1016/j.ymgme.2010.11.002
- **Subject:** Whole exome sequencing revealed mutations in FBXL4, UNC80, and ADK in Thai patients with Leigh Syndrome. 
  - **Author:** Graidist P, Khwanvongpun P, Suwannarat P, Kuptanon C, Rochanawutanon M, Auephanwiriyakul S, Chuenkongkaew W, Boonyapisit K, Visudtibhan A, Chailurkit L, Shotelersuk V. 
  - **DOI:** 10.1016/j.cca.2018.11.038.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**