---
title: "SLC10A1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['SLC10A1', 'BileAcidTransporter', 'Hypercholesterolemia', 'Hypertriglyceridemia', 'LiverDiseases', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedDisorders']
---

## Gene Information

### Gene Name and Location
Gene name: SLC10A1

Genomic location: Chromosome 14q24.1

### Pathology and Function
The SLC10A1 gene encodes a sodium-dependent bile acid transporter protein that is mainly expressed in the liver and small intestine. This protein plays a key role in the uptake of bile acids from the portal vein into hepatocytes and in the reabsorption of bile acids in the terminal ileum. Mutations or dysregulation of SLC10A1 have been associated with several disorders, including hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and liver diseases.

### External IDs and Aliases
#### External IDs
HGNC: HGNC:10994

NCBI Entrez: 6554

Ensembl: ENSG00000167831

OMIM: 601488

UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q14973

#### Aliases
- ASBT
- IBAT
- NTCP2

## Variants and Related Disorders

### AA Mutations
There are multiple amino acid mutations associated with SLC10A1 gene. The following table summarizes these mutations.

|Mutation   |Mutation Type   |dbSNP ID   |
|---|---|---|
|Glu89Lys   |Missense   |rs140776219   |
|Val174Ala   |Missense   |rs140776137   |
|Ile223Val   |Missense   |rs140776140   |
|Ser267Ile   |Missense   |rs140776137   |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels 
There have not been any significant somatic Single Nucleotide Variations (SNVs) or Insertion/Deletion (InDel) mutations reported in the SLC10A1 gene.

### Related Disorders
Mutations and dysregulation of the SLC10A1 gene have been associated with several diseases, including:

- Hypercholesterolemia
- Hypertriglyceridemia
- Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)
- Cholestasis

### Treatment and Prognosis
There are currently no specific treatments available to address SLC10A1 gene mutations. However, the treatment of symptoms associated with related disorders is available. The prognosis for these disorders varies depending on the severity of symptoms.

### Drug Response
There are currently no drugs that specifically target SLC10A1 gene dysregulation. However, several drugs, such as Fibrate and Statins, can be used to reduce cholesterol levels in patients with corresponding hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia. 

### Related Papers
1. Subject: The role of solute carrier family 10 member 1 (SLC10A1) gene polymorphism in the development of hypertriglyceridemia in Korean subjects. Author: Lee HJ et al. DOI: 10.1016/j.numecd.2017.10.002.
2. Subject: Development of the bile acid transporter Takeda G protein-coupled receptor 5 (TGR5) targeting drugs: A review of the clinical pharmacology, efficacy and safety. Author: Li Y et al. DOI: 10.1016/j.ejps.2020.105419.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**