---
title: "ALG5"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for ALG5"
tags: ['ALG5', 'CongenitalDisordersOfGlycosylation', 'NLinkedGlycosylation', 'Mutation', 'CDGIk', 'NeurologicalSymptoms', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment']
---

# Gene Information for ALG5

## Basic Information

- **Gene:** ALG5 (Alpha-1,3- mannosyltransferase)
- **Genetic Position:** Chr 1: 177,014,847 - 177,033,597
- **Aliases:** CDG1K, DP1, MRT14, FLJ00150
- **External IDs:**
	- HGNC: 403
	- NCBI Entrez: 79148
	- Ensembl: ENSG00000132676
	- OMIM: 606144
	- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BYK7

## Function of Gene

ALG5 gene encodes a protein that belongs to the glycosyltransferase family. The protein is essential for transferring the second sugar, mannose, to the growing lipid-linked oligosaccharide chain during N-linked protein glycosylation. This process is important for cell growth and cell-cell interaction.

## Mutations

- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID:** There are several AA mutations reported in the ALG5 gene, including 
	- p.Thr105Met (rs121918650)
	- p.Glu294Ter (rs200797711)
	- p.Gly310Ser (rs779388097)
	- p.Asp317Asn (rs871904145)
	- p.Ala409Val (rs879253594)

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No somatic mutations have been reported in ALG5 gene.

## Related Disease

Mutations in ALG5 gene are associated with Congenital Disorders of Glycosylation, type Ik (CDG-Ik), which is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by neurological symptoms, developmental delay, and growth retardation. 

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no specific treatment for CDG-Ik at present. Management of symptoms and complications associated with CDG-Ik is an important aspect of treatment and care. The prognosis of CDG-Ik is usually poor, and affected individuals may have a reduced lifespan.

## Drug Response

There is no known drug treatment for ALG5 gene mutations.

## References

- Freeze, H., Eklund, E. A., Ng, B. G., & Patterson, M. C. (2020). Neurological aspects of human glycosylation disorders. Annual Review of Neuroscience, 43, 663-686. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-080819-125023
- Marquardt, T., Denecke, J., & Congenital disorders of glycosylation, G. S. (2019). CDG-Ik (ALG5-CDG). In GeneReviews. University of Washington, Seattle.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**