---
title: "AKT3"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene AKT3"
tags: ['AKT3', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'CellularProcesses', 'GeneticInformation']
---

# Gene AKT3

## Information

- **Genetic position:** Chr.1q44
- **Pathology:** AKT3 is involved in a variety of cancer types, including breast cancer, colorectal cancer, and prostate cancer.
- **Function:** The AKT3 gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase, which plays a key role in regulation of multiple cellular processes, including glucose metabolism, apoptosis, cell proliferation, and cell migration.
- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 392
    - NCBI Entrez: 10000
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000117020
    - OMIM: 611223
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y243

## Mutations

- **AA mutation list with mutation type and dbSNP ID:**
    - E17K (Missense), rs121434569
    - G215E (Missense), rs55848022
    - W80C (Missense), rs1130214
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - rs786203070
    - rs1057519691
    - rs756990609

## Related diseases

- Colorectal cancer
- Prostate cancer
- Breast cancer

## Treatment and prognosis

Treatment for AKT3-related cancers varies depending on tumor type and may include surgical resection, chemotherapy, and/or radiation therapy. Prognosis also varies depending on tumor stage, location, and other factors.

## Drug response

Several targeted therapies have been developed for AKT3-related cancers, including AKT inhibitors such as AZD5363 and GSK2141795.

## Related papers

- Bader AG. et al. (2006) Oncogene. [**Hyperactivation of Akt in human cancer**]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.onc.1209379)
- Carpten JD. et al. (2011) Nature. [**A transforming mutation in the pleckstrin homology domain of AKT1 in cancer**]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature10179)
- Ma L. et al. (2018) Cell Death & Disease. [**Akt3 knockdown induces oxidative stress and apoptosis, and alters the expression of genes associated with drug metabolism and DNA repair in MCF7 human breast cancer cells**]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41419-018-0918-z)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**