---
title: "FREM2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene FREM2"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'FREM2Gene', 'ConnectiveTissue', 'DevelopmentalDisorders', 'Mutations', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about Gene FREM2

## Genetic Position
* Chromosome: 13
* Location: 13q13.2

## Pathology
Mutations in the FREM2 gene are associated with a variety of autosomal recessive developmental disorders, including Fraser syndrome and bifid nose with or without anorectal and renal anomalies (BNAR).

## Function
The FREM2 gene encodes a protein that is involved in the development and maintenance of connective tissue. It binds to other proteins, such as type IV collagen, and is involved in the organization of basement membranes.

## External IDs and Aliases
* HGNC ID: 8869
* NCBI Entrez ID: 341640
* Ensembl ID: ENSG00000136013
* OMIM ID: 608944
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q5SZ86
* Alias: C13orf7, FRAS1-related extracellular matrix protein 2

## AA mutation list and Mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are multiple missense mutations in the FREM2 gene, most of which are pathogenic, leading to protein truncation. Some examples of these mutations include:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|------------|--------|
|p.Gly160Glufs*46|frameshift|rs137853163|
|p.Arg102Pro|missense|rs142276215|
|p.Ala225Gly|missense|rs137853162|
|p.Gly850Asp|missense|rs137853161|
|p.Ser1002Leu|missense|rs398123881|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic mutations in the FREM2 gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the FREM2 gene are associated with several developmental disorders, including:
* Fraser syndrome
* Bifid nose with or without anorectal and renal anomalies (BNAR)

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for developmental disorders caused by mutations in FREM2 is typically supportive and may involve surgery or other interventions to address specific symptoms or complications. The prognosis for affected individuals varies depending on the specific disorder and the severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response associated with mutations in the FREM2 gene.

## Related Papers
* Subject: PHF6 regulates pluripotency and chromatin structure in embryonic stem cells
  * Author: Landau M, Rosenfeld E, Vardy A
  * DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1101/gad.189654.112)

* Subject: Fraser syndrome: review of the diagnostic criteria and evidence for genetic heterogeneity
  * Author: van Haelst MM, Scambler PJ, Hennekam RC
  * DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1399-0004.2007.00873.x)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**