---
title: "RPL38"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information Analysis Report: Gene RPL38 "
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'GeneRPL38', 'RibosomalProtein', 'ProteinSynthesis', 'Pathology', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Genetic Information Analysis Report: Gene RPL38 

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Gene Position:** RPL38 is located on chromosome 17q21.31.
- **Pathology:** No major pathological association of the RPL38 gene has been reported.
- **Function:** RPL38 encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the large subunit of the ribosome. It plays a crucial role in protein synthesis by helping to assemble the amino acid chains that form proteins. 

### External IDs for Gene
- **HGNC:** 10323
- **NCBI Entrez:** 6135
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000168758
- **OMIM:** 602934
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** P78376

### Aliases for Gene
- **Gene Symbol:** RPL38
- **Other Names:** 
    - 60S ribosomal protein L38
    - L37a

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
No pathogenic variant is reported for the RPL38 gene.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No data available at the moment.

### Related Disease
No major disease is associated with RPL38 gene variations, however, some studies reported that altered expression levels of ribosomal proteins are implicated in some pathological conditions. 

### Treatment and Prognosis
No treatment or prognosis information exists specifically for RPL38 gene variations.

### Drug Response
No specific drug response information is available for the RPL38 gene.

### Related Papers
- [Shi, Z., et al. Lower expression of ribosomal protein L38 and its prognosis significance in gastric cancer: a Chinese perspective study. International journal of clinical and experimental pathology, 2014]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25674263/))
- [Iadevaia, V., & Caldarola, S. Altered ribosome biology and proteostasis in Huntington’s disease: emerging therapeutic targets and new pharmacological approaches. Frontiers in neuroscience, 2019]([Click](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fnins.2019.00046/full)) 

***Note: This report is prepared by an AI language model and is solely for informational purposes. It is not intended to provide medical advice or diagnosis, nor is it intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice.***

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**