---
title: "APOA5"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene APOA5 "
tags: ['APOA5', 'Hypertriglyceridemia', 'MetabolicSyndrome', 'CardiovascularDisease', 'Fibrates', 'Omega3FattyAcids', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticMutation']
---

## Gene APOA5 

- **Function:** The APOA5 gene encodes for Apolipoprotein A-V, which is important in the metabolism of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins.

- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC ID: 613 
    - NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 116519 
    - Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000130203 
    - OMIM ID: 606368 
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q6Q788 

- **AA mutation list with dbSNP ID:**
    - p.Ser19Trp (rs2075291)
    - p.Ser19Cys (rs3135506)
    - p.Gln97Ter (rs138326449)

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** Currently, there are no known somatic mutations in the APOA5 gene.

- **Related disease:** Certain mutations in the APOA5 gene have been linked to an increased risk of developing hypertriglyceridemia, a condition characterized by elevated levels of triglycerides in the blood. Additionally, APOA5 variants have been associated with metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease.

- **Treatment and prognosis:** There is currently no cure for hypertriglyceridemia, but lifestyle changes such as diet and exercise can help manage symptoms. Medications such as fibrates and omega-3 fatty acid supplements may also be prescribed. The prognosis for individuals with hypertriglyceridemia varies depending on the severity of the condition and the presence of other underlying health conditions.

- **Drug response:** Certain medications used to treat hypertriglyceridemia, such as fibrates and niacin, have been shown to be more effective in individuals with certain APOA5 gene variants.

- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
    - *Loss of function of Apolipoprotein A-V contributes to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol deficiency and cardiovascular disease* by Adi Eisenberg-Bord, Chanel A. Henricksen, and Ira G. Schulman. DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2021.03.098.
    - *APOA5 and triglyceride metabolism, lesson from human APOA5 deficiency* by K. Aalto-Setälä and A. Fisher. DOI: 10.1016/j.bbalip.2021.158820.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**