---
title: "CISD2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene CISD2"
tags: ['CISD2', 'WolframSyndrome2', 'MitochondrialIntegrity', 'OxidativeStress', 'MissenseMutations', 'SymptomManagement', 'Prognosis', 'MitochondrialDynamics']
---

## Information about gene CISD2

**Genetic position:** Chromosome 4q21.21

**Pathology:** CISD2 gene mutations have been associated with Wolfram syndrome 2, which is a rare genetic disorder that affects various parts of the body, particularly the eyes, the nervous system, and the endocrine system.

**Function for gene:** The CISD2 gene encodes a protein called CDGSH iron-sulfur domain 2, which is involved in regulating the cellular response to oxidative stress and the maintenance of mitochondrial integrity.

**External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
- HGNC ID: 20928
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 493856
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000115300
- OMIM ID: 611507
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q8NBQ7
- Aliases: ERIS, Miner1, NAF-1

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

There are several missense mutations in the CISD2 gene that have been reported to cause Wolfram syndrome 2. Here are a few examples:

| Mutation | Mutation type | dbSNP ID |
| -------- | ------------- | -------- |
| p.Arg88Gln | Missense | rs80356663 |
| p.Arg177Pro | Missense | rs80356664 |
| p.Arg233Gly | Missense | rs398122896 |
| p.Glu244Lys | Missense | rs398122897 |

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** 

There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID in the CISD2 gene.

**Related diseases:** Wolfram syndrome 2

**Treatment and prognosis:** There is currently no cure for Wolfram syndrome 2 and treatment is generally focused on managing the symptoms. The prognosis of this disorder is generally poor, with most affected individuals developing multiple health problems over time.

**Drug response:** There is no specific drug treatment that targets Wolfram syndrome 2, although various medications may be used to manage symptoms such as diabetes mellitus, optic nerve atrophy, and psychiatric disorders.

**Related papers:** 

- Author: De Franco, E., Flanagan, S. E., King, C., et al.
  - [DOI: 10.1002/humu.22421]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/humu.22421))
  - Title: Heterozygous mutations at the ERAL1 – cisD2 locus are associated with Wolfram syndrome
- Author: Cagalinec, M., Liiv, M., Hodurova, Z., et al.
  - [DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0190358]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0190358))
  - Title: Role of mitochondrial dynamics in neuronal development: mechanism for Wolfram syndrome

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**