---
title: "WNT4"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: WNT4"
tags: ['WNT4', 'MullerianDuctAnomaly', 'ReproductiveTractDisorder', 'MissenseMutations', 'EmbryonicDevelopment', 'CellDifferentiation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'IVF']
---

# Gene Information: WNT4

## Genetic Position 
WNT4 is located on chromosome 1 at position 1p36.12

## Pathology
Mutations in WNT4 gene are associated with Müllerian duct anomaly, which is a congenital reproductive tract disorder in women characterized by incomplete Müllerian duct development resulting in structural abnormalities of the uterus, cervix, and fallopian tubes.

## Function for gene
The WNT4 gene encodes a protein that belongs to the WNT family of cysteine-rich secreted glycoproteins. The protein is involved in embryonic development and plays a role in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation. Specifically, WNT4 is a key regulator of Müllerian duct development in females and involved in the differentiation of the ovary.

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- HGNC:12734
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 54361
- Ensembl: ENSG00000135870
- OMIM: 603490
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O00755
- Aliases: SERKAL, WNT-4, WNT5, WNT-5

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are several missense mutations reported in the WNT4 gene. Some of them are:
- p.T80A (rs137853116)
- p.N92K (rs34254344)
- p.W153R (rs727504730)
- p.R227Q (rs78786506)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no somatic SNVs/InDels reported in the WNT4 gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in WNT4 gene are associated with Mullerian duct anomaly, which is a congenital reproductive tract disorder in women characterized by incomplete Mullerian duct development resulting in structural abnormalities of the uterus, cervix, and fallopian tubes.

## Treatment and prognosis
Currently, treatment for Mullerian duct anomaly depends on the severity of the condition and the individual patient's situation. In some cases, fertility treatments such as in vitro fertilization (IVF) may be used to help patients become pregnant. In other cases, surgery may be necessary to correct structural abnormalities of the reproductive tract. 

## Drug response
There is no specific drug response associated with mutations in the WNT4 gene.

## Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers
- Philibert, P., Biason-Lauber, A., Rouzier, R., Pienkowski, C., Paris, F., Konrad, D., Schoenle, E., & Sultan, C. (2008). Identification and functional analysis of a new WNT4 gene mutation among 28 adolescent girls with primary amenorrhea and müllerian duct abnormalities: a French collaborative study. The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism, 93(3), 895–900. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1210/jc.2007-1627)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**