---
title: "PMS2P3"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene PMS2P3"
tags: ['PMS2P3', 'pseudogene', 'genomiclocation', 'nonfunctional', 'biomarker', 'Lynchsyndrome', 'colorectalcancer', 'geneticinformationanalyst']
---

## Gene PMS2P3

### Genomic Location

PMS2P3 is a pseudogene, which is located on chromosome 7q11.23.

### Function

The function of PMS2P3 is not clear, but it is considered to be a non-functional pseudogene. Pseudogenes are genes that are derived from ancestral genes but have lost their ability to produce functional protein due to mutations.

### External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC ID: HGNC:29222
- NCBI Entrez ID: 728068
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000229524
- OMIM ID: -
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: -

Aliases: PMS2CL, PMS2L9P

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

Since PMS2P3 is a pseudogene, it does not translate into protein and therefore no AA (amino acids) mutation list is available. 

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID associated with PMS2P3.

### Related Disease

There is no disease associated with PMS2P3. 

### Treatment and Prognosis

Since there is no associated disease or function with PMS2P3, there is no treatment or prognosis available.

### Drug Response

There is no drug response associated with PMS2P3.

### Related Papers

- [The PMS2P3 pseudogene – A potential biomarker for screening Lynch syndrome in colorectal cancer patients]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molliq.2017.01.031)
- [Nonfunctional PMS2 pseudogenes located on chromosome 7]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/gcc.22211) 

Author: AI


**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**