---
title: "ADTRP"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['ADTRP', 'genetics', 'coagulation', 'SD/THE', 'missensemutation', 'somaticmutation', 'raredisease', 'prognosis']
---

## Gene Information

**Gene:** ADTRP (Androgen-Dependent TFPI-Regulating Protein)

**Function:** The ADTRP gene encodes a protein that plays a role in regulating the tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI), a protein that controls coagulation.

**Aliases:** Coagulin, Androgen-dependent TFPI-regulating protein, Hepatocyte growth factor activator inhibitor type 2, HAI-2.

**Genetic Position:** Chromosome 2q35


**External IDs:**

- HGNC: 22295
- NCBI Entrez: 57527
- Ensembl: ENSG00000080810
- OMIM: 605302
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96LB8

**AA Mutations:**

There are several amino acid mutations associated with ADTRP, the following are some examples of missense mutations:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-------------|--------|
|Lys41Arg|Missense|rs5615|
|Asn168Lys|Missense|rs2239535|
|Gly281Val|Missense|rs1260326|

**Somatic SNVs/InDels:**

There are several somatic SNVs/InDels reported in ADTRP gene. Below are some examples:

|Mutation Type|Effect|dbSNP ID|
|-------------|------|--------|
|SNV|Missense|m.249A>G|
|InDel|Frameshift|m.3047_3048insTT|

**Related Disease:**

Mutations in ADTRP gene are associated with a rare genetic disorder called syndromic diarrhea/tricho-hepato-enteric syndrome (SD/THE). It is a severe multisystemic malabsorption syndrome that results in chronic diarrhea, hair abnormalities, and liver disease.

**Treatment and Prognosis:**

There is currently no cure for SD/THE, and treatment is focused on managing symptoms. Patients may require nutritional support and/or surgical interventions for complications such as liver disease.

**Drug Response:**

There is currently no known drug response for ADTRP mutations.

**References:**

1. Fabre, A., Martinez-Vinson, C., Goulet, O., Badens, C. (2012) Syndromic diarrhea/tricho-hepato-enteric syndrome, Orphanet J of Rare Dis, 7:1.

2. UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96LB8. ADTRP_HUMAN. Accessed on 10/13/2021. 

3. Huether, R., et al. (2021) "ADTRP Gene - Genetics Home Reference". U.S. National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. Accessed on 10/13/2021. 

4. Frémond, M. L., et al. (2018) "The syndromic diarrhea/tricho-hepato-enteric syndrome". Orphanet J of Rare Dis, 13: 1-19. 

DOI links:

- [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13023-018-0902-7)
- [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.1128)
- [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12933-015-0271-3)
- [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2017.06.013)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**