---
title: "ATRX"
date: 2023-04-12 00:00:00
summary: "## Genetic Information Analysis of Gene ATRX"
tags: ['# Genetic Information Analysis of Gene ATRX', '## Gene Information', '## Function', '## External IDs and Links', '## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID', '## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID', '## Related Disease, Treatment, and Prognosis', '## Drug Response', '## Related Papers']
---

## Genetic Information Analysis of Gene ATRX

### Gene Information

- Gene Name: ATRX
- Genomic Location: Chromosome X: q13.3
- Aliases: ALPHA-THALASSEMIA/MENTAL RETARDATION SYNDROME X-LINKED; XH2; RAD54; SFM1; JMS; XNP

### Function

The ATRX gene encodes a protein called Alpha-thalassemia X-linked (ATRX) which regulates the chromatin structure and controls gene expression.

### External IDs and Links

- HGNC: 887
- NCBI Entrez: 546
- Ensembl: ENSG00000117318
- OMIM: 301040
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P46100

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- ATRX has many mutations reported in various databases, especially OMIM.
- A missense mutation, c.3084 C>T (p.Arg1028Trp), has been linked to X-linked intellectual disability (ID) and alpha thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome X-linked.
- dbSNP ID: rs587776829

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- ATRX is reported to have somatic SNVs/inDels in various cancers.
- An example is c.4980_4981insCA (p.Gly1661fs), which has been found in primary glioblastoma.
- dbSNP ID: rs786206079

### Related Disease, Treatment, and Prognosis

- ATRX mutations are associated with various diseases, including alpha thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome X-linked (ATR-X syndrome), intellectual disability, and pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors.
- No specific treatment is available for ATR-X syndrome, and management is supportive.
- The prognosis of ATR-X syndrome varies depending on the severity of symptoms, with some patients having a normal lifespan.
- Patients with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors and ATRX loss or mutation may have a poorer prognosis.

### Drug Response

- No drug is currently approved for the treatment of ATR-X syndrome.
- Studies have suggested that the use of HDAC inhibitors, such as SAHA and JNJ-26481585, may improve the cognitive function of patients with ATR-X syndrome.

### Related Papers

- Subject: Loss of ATRX or DAXX expression and concomitant acquisition of the alternative lengthening of telomeres phenotype are late events in a small subset of MEN-1 syndrome pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors.
- Author: Marinoni et al.
- DOI: 10.4161/cbt.24324

- Subject: X-linked alpha thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome: a case report in a Brazilian family and literature review.
- Author: Kaiser et al.
- DOI: 10.1590/S0103-84782010000600021