---
title: "OPA1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: OPA1"
tags: ['OPA1', 'MitochondrialDynamics', 'OpticNeuropathy', 'Neurodegeneration', 'CMT2A3', 'DrugResponse', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: OPA1

## Gene Function
OPA1 is a nuclear gene that encodes a dynamin-related GTPase protein, which is involved in the maintenance and fusion of mitochondria. It is responsible for regulating mitochondrial morphology and dynamics, cell death regulation, mitochondrial DNA replication, and quality control of mitochondria.

## External IDs, Genomic Location, and Aliases
- HGNC: 8118
- NCBI Entrez: 4976
- Ensembl: ENSG00000198836
- OMIM: 165500
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60313
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 3q28

Aliases:
- Charcot-Marie-Tooth neuropathy type 2A3 (CMT2A3)
- Deafness and dystonia peptide 1 (DDP1)
- Kjer-type optic atrophy (OPA1)

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Asp748Asn (rs80338908)
- p.Ala336Val (rs121908029)
- p.Ala477Thr (rs121908030)
- p.Arg445His (rs121908031)
- p.Gln1052Arg (rs121908032)

Mutation Type: Missense

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
The somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID for OPA1 are currently unknown.

## Related Diseases
- Autosomal dominant optic atrophy (ADOA)
- Optic atrophy type 1 (OPA1)
- Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease 2A3 (CMT2A3)
- Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)
- Ischemia/reperfusion injury

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for disorders related to OPA1 mutations, and treatment is mostly supportive. For optic neuropathy, patients may benefit from visual rehabilitation, low vision aids, and supportive devices. The prognosis for patients with OPA1-linked disorders varies widely, ranging from a benign asymptomatic course to severe visual and neurological impairment, depending on the specific OPA1 mutation and the degree of disease progression.

## Drug Response
There is limited information on drug response in patients with OPA1 mutations. However, some potential therapeutic targets and drugs are being explored, such as modulating mitochondrial dynamics and biogenesis, enhancing mitochondrial quality control, and regulating cell death pathways.

## Related Papers
- Yu-Wai-Man, P., & Chinnery, P. F. (2017). Neurological aspects of mitochondrial DNA disease. Neurotherapeutics, 14(2), 287-294. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s13311-017-0523-7)
- Lenaers, G., Hamel, C., & Delettre, C. (2016). et al., Optic neuropathies: the tip of the neurodegeneration iceberg. Human Molecular Genetics, 25(R2), R113-R124. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/hmg/ddv410)
- Reddy, P. H. (2014). Mitochondrial dysfunction in aging and Alzheimer's disease: strategies to protect neurons. Antioxidants & redox signaling, 16(12), 1417-1438. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1089/ars.2011.4149)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**