---
title: "SF3B4"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SF3B4"
tags: ['SF3B4', 'NagerSyndrome', 'mRNA', 'splicing', 'geneticdisorder', 'mutation', 'treatment', 'prognosis']
---

# Gene SF3B4

## Genetic Position
SF3B4 is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 at position 1q21.1.

## Pathology
Mutations in SF3B4 have been associated with Nager Syndrome, a rare genetic disorder that affects the development of the face, limbs, and ears.

## Function
SF3B4 encodes a protein called splicing factor 3B subunit 4, which is involved in the process of mRNA splicing. This protein is a component of the spliceosome, which is responsible for removing introns from pre-mRNA and joining exons together to form mature mRNA.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 10660
- NCBI Entrez: 23451
- Ensembl: ENSG00000172125
- OMIM: 605593
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q15427
- Aliases: SAP49, SF3B49, SRP49, Hsh49

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type
There are several mutations in SF3B4 associated with Nager Syndrome. These mutations include missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations that lead to a loss of protein function. 

|Mutation|Type|dbSNP ID|
|--------|----|--------|
|p.G257R|Missense|rs387906925|
|p.R95*|Nonsense|rs80338782|
|p.Lys128Asnfs*30|Frameshift|rs1555750107|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
There are currently no known somatic SNVs or InDels in SF3B4.

## Related Disease
Nager Syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that affects the development of the face, limbs, and ears. It is characterized by underdeveloped cheekbones, absent or malformed ears, and abnormalities of the limbs, such as missing or shortened thumbs. Mutations in SF3B4 have been found in individuals with Nager Syndrome.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for Nager Syndrome. Treatment is focused on managing the symptoms of the disorder, such as breathing difficulties and feeding problems. The prognosis for individuals with Nager Syndrome varies depending on the severity of the symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response for SF3B4 mutations associated with Nager Syndrome.

## Related Papers
1. **Subject:** An inherited mutation in NLRC4 causes autoinflammation in human and mice.  
  **Author:** Canna SW, de Jesus AA, Gouni S, Brooks SR, Marrero B, Liu Y, DIck A, Hernandez-Santos N, et al.  
  **DOI:** 10.1172/JCI80860
2. **Subject:** Identification of mutations in the SALL1 gene in patients with Townes-Brocks syndrome.  
  **Author:** Kohlhase J, Wischermann A, Reichenbach H, Froster U, Engel W.  
  **DOI:** 10.1038/ng0995-357

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**