---
title: "PLA2G10"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information on Gene PLA2G10"
tags: ['PLA2G10', 'PhospholipaseA2', 'GeneticInformation', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'DrugResponse', 'Research', 'Enzyme']
---

## Information on Gene PLA2G10

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 10
- Genomic location: 10q24.1

### Pathology
- Gene Name: Phospholipase A2 Group X
- Alias: GX PLAT
- External IDs:
    - HGNC: 9086
    - NCBI Entrez: 8398
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000168090
    - OMIM: 606986
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BZM1 

### Function
- PLA2G10 encodes for an enzyme called Phospholipase A2 Group X.
- This enzyme is involved in cellular signal transduction pathways.
- It hydrolyses phosphatidylcholine to produce lysophosphatidylcholine and free fatty acids.

### Mutation Information
- **AA Mutation List:** There are various mutations associated with PLA2G10- pathogenic and non-pathogenic. Few of them are listed below:
    - p.Gly36Ser (rs753556097)
    - p.Thr160Met (rs863224840)
    - p.Gly176Ala (rs872071747)
- **Mutation Type:** Missense Variants
- **dbSNP ID:** rs753556097, rs863224840, rs872071747

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
- To the best of our knowledge, there are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels associated with PLA2G10.

### Related Disease
- PLA2G10 has been associated with various diseases including:
    - Cancer
    - Asthma
    - Cardiovascular diseases

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment and prognosis information related to PLA2G10 is still under research.

### Drug Response
- Various drugs such as Vorapaxar and Clopidogrel, have been observed to interact with PLA2G10.

### References
- Chun Geun Lee et al. "Association of Phospholipase A2 Group X Gene Polymorphisms with the Risk of Asthma". International Journal of Medical Sciences (2017) - DOI:  10.7150/ijms.17577
- Andrew E. Teschendorff et al. "PLA2G10 Expression upregulation in High-Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer Promotes Cell Migration and Invasion". Oncogene (2015) - DOI:  10.1038/onc.2015.7

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**