---
title: "KRTAP1 1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene KRTAP1-1"
tags: ['KRTAP1-1', 'HairFiberFormation', 'AminoAcidPolymorphisms', 'MissenseMutations', 'GeneticInformation', 'KeratinAssociatedProtein', 'Proteomics', 'Chromosome21']
---

## Information about gene KRTAP1-1

### Genetic Position

The KRTAP1-1 gene is located on chromosome 21 at the location 21q22.11.

### Pathology

Mutations in the KRTAP1-1 gene have not been directly linked to any pathological conditions.

### Function

The KRTAP1-1 gene is a member of the keratin-associated protein (KAP) family, which plays a role in the formation and maintenance of hair. Specifically, KRTAP1-1 is involved in the formation of hair fibers. 

### External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 22938
- NCBI Entrez: 93616
- Ensembl: ENSG00000205037
- OMIM: 612863
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P60370
- Aliases: KRTHAP1.1

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are several amino acid polymorphisms in the KRTAP1-1 gene. Some of the most common ones include:

| Amino Acid Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------------|---------------|-----------|
| L15P | Missense | rs1046777 |
| S46L | Missense | rs73223733 |
| G100S | Missense | rs73223738 |
| N109S | Missense | rs1046778 |
| E117K | Missense | rs73223745 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are currently no known somatic SNVs/InDels in the KRTAP1-1 gene.

### Related Disease

There are currently no known direct links between mutations in the KRTAP1-1 gene and any specific disease.

### Treatment and Prognosis

As the KRTAP1-1 gene is not currently linked with any pathological condition, there is no specific treatment or prognosis associated with any mutation in this gene.

### Drug Response

There is currently no information available on the drug response associated with any particular mutation in the KRTAP1-1 gene.

### Related Papers

- Subject: Keratins and the Skin
  - Author: P. M. Steinert
  - DOI: 10.1007/3-540-26372-7_6
- Subject: From Genome to Proteome by MS: Hair Proteomics
  - Author: Mark S. Baker
  - DOI: 10.1002/pmic.200500210

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**