---
title: "MYH9"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Name: MYH9"
tags: ['MYH9', 'PlateletDisorders', 'InheritedDisorders', 'MissenseMutation', 'BleedingDisorders', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'ClinicalPhenotype']
---

## Gene Name: MYH9

### Gene Function:
The MYH9 gene encodes the non-muscle myosin heavy chain IIA (NMMHC-IIA), which is a cytoskeletal motor protein involved in cell adhesion, migration, and maintenance of cell shape.

### Genomic Location, External IDs, and Aliases:

- Genomic Location: Chromosome 22q12.3
- External IDs: HGNC:7573, NCBI Entrez:4627, Ensembl:ENSG00000100345, OMIM:160775, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P35579
- Aliases: DFNA17, EPSTS, FTNS, MHA, MYH-IIA, MYH9A, NMHC-IIA

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:

Mutations in the MYH9 gene have been associated with a wide range of disorders including May-Hegglin anomaly, Epstein syndrome, Fechtner syndrome, and Sebastian syndrome. 

Some of the AA mutations in MYH9 gene, their mutation type and dbSNP ID include:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|----------|
| R702C | Missense Mutation | rs121913466 |
| D1424N | Missense Mutation | rs137853163 |
| E1841K | Missense Mutation | rs137853791 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

The following somatic SNVs/InDels in MYH9 gene with their dbSNP IDs:

| SNV/InDel | dbSNP ID |
|-----------|----------|
| c.2766A>T | rs2229818 |
| c.5271A>G | rs2239784 |

### Related Disease:

Mutations in the MYH9 gene have been associated with various inherited platelet disorders collectively known as MYH9-related disorders. These include May-Hegglin anomaly, Sebastian syndrome, Epstein syndrome, and Fechtner syndrome. Individuals with these disorders have large platelets which can lead to bleeding disorders and other complications.

### Treatment and Prognosis:

Treatment of MYH9-related disorders mainly focuses on managing symptoms. This includes blood transfusions for severe bleeding, iron supplementation for anemia and avoiding medications that affect platelet function. The long-term prognosis for individuals with MYH9-related disorder depends on the specific condition.

### Drug Response:

There is limited information on drug response in individuals with MYH9-related disorders. Platelet transfusions or other clotting factor replacement therapies are used to control bleeding.

### Related Papers:

- Subject: A Murine Model of MYH9-Related Disease That Recapitulates the Clinical Phenotype
  - Author: Tripti R. Jain et al.
  - DOI: 10.1182/blood-2017-11-816454

- Subject: MYH9-Related Disease
  - Author: Noris, Marina, and Giuseppe Remuzzi.
  - DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-67144-4_38

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**