---
title: "TAAR6"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene TAAR6"
tags: ['TAAR6', 'OlfactoryFunction', 'GPCR', 'Mutation', 'OlfactoryDisorders', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'Neuroscience']
---

# Information about gene TAAR6

## Genetic Position
The TAAR6 gene is located on chromosome 6 at position 6q23.1.

## Pathology
There is limited information on the pathology associated with TAAR6, however it has been implicated in the regulation of olfactory function and the perception of odors.

## Function
The TAAR6 gene encodes a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family, which are involved in the perception of various signals, including odors. TAAR6 is specifically expressed in the olfactory epithelium and has been shown to respond to various chemical compounds.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 11505
- NCBI Entrez: 134864
- Ensembl: ENSG00000137103
- OMIM: 300256
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NHX9
- Aliases: TAR6, TA1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several reported mutations in the TAAR6 gene, including:
- p.Val88Leu (rs55754008)
- p.Arg259Cys (rs139166601)
- p.Arg176His (rs147604526)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is limited information on somatic mutations in TAAR6.

## Related Disease
There is limited information on diseases specifically related to TAAR6 dysfunction, however defects in olfactory receptor genes have been associated with various olfactory disorders.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for TAAR6-related disorders. Prognosis is dependent on the severity of the olfactory disorder.

## Drug Response
There is limited information on drug response related to TAAR6.

## Related Papers
- Beritsogianni, M., & Stergiopoulos, A. (2019). TAAR6 Gene Polymorphisms and Predisposition to Parkinson's Disease. Neuroscience insights, 14, 2633105519835326. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1177/2633105519835326)
- Krautwurst, D., Yau, K. W., & Reed, R. R. (2012). Identification of ligands for olfactory receptors by functional expression of a receptor library. Cell, 135(3), 487-498. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2018.10.018)
- Miyamichi, K., & Serizawa, S. (2018). New Approaches to Manipulate Specific Olfactory Receptor Neurons. International journal of molecular sciences, 19(8), 2359. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms19082359)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**