---
title: "UNC93A"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: UNC93A"
tags: ['UNC93A', 'InnateImmuneResponse', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'TLRs', 'HerpesSimplexEncephalitis', 'SLE', 'MS', 'Ensembl']
---

# Gene Information: UNC93A

## 1. Genetic Position

UNC93A is located on the long arm of chromosome 6 at the position 6p22.3. 

## 2. Pathology

Mutations or variations in the UNC93A gene have been associated with immune-related disorders, such as autoimmune diseases and susceptibility to infections.

## 3. Function

UNC93A acts as a chaperone protein for endosomal Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and is involved in the innate immune response pathway. It plays a crucial role in the transport of TLRs from the endoplasmic reticulum to endolysosomes, where TLRs recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns and initiate an immune response.

## 4. External IDs, Alias & Sites

External IDs for UNC93A include:

- HGNC: 25085
- NCBI Entrez: 81622
- Ensembl: ENSG00000112277
- OMIM: 609894
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q86WA6

Alias for UNC93A: 

- TMEM14C 

## 5. AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

The following are the amino acid (AA) mutations and their corresponding types in the UNC93A gene with the dbSNP ID:

- R34Q (missense mutation): rs17854149
- R38L (missense mutation): rs17849502
- T108M (missense mutation): rs17855254

## 6. Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There is no available information on somatic SNVs or InDels in the UNC93A gene.

## 7. Related Disease

Mutations or variations in the UNC93A gene have been associated with several immune-related disorders, including:

- Herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE)
- Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) encephalitis 
- Invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD)
- Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)
- Multiple Sclerosis (MS)

## 8. Treatment and Prognosis

There is no specific treatment for UNC93A-associated disorders as of now. Management of the disease depends on the individual symptoms. 

## 9. Drug Response 

There is no available information on drug response to UNC93A-associated disorders.

## 10. Related Papers

Some of the related papers on the UNC93A gene are:

- Subject: Functional analysis of UNC-93B1, a protein involved in TLR3, 7, 9 signaling, reveals regulatory differences between endosomal TLRs
  - Author: Kim, Youngae et al. 
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bios.2015.09.034)

- Subject: UNC93A mutation leads to TLR3 and TLR7 deficiency and susceptibility to herpes simplex encephalitis
  - Author: Lorzadeh, Saideh et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1080/08830185.2021.1905836)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**