---
title: "PRM1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: PRM1"
tags: ['PRM1', 'Infertility', 'MaleInfertility', 'SpermHistones', 'Protamines', 'GeneticInformation', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function']
---

# Gene: PRM1

## Genetic Position:
* Chromosome: 16
* Location: 16p13.2

## Pathology:
* PRM1 mutations are associated with infertility and male infertility.
* PRM1 is one of the proteins found in sperm.

## Function:
* PRM1 encodes a protein that is a component of sperm histones, which are replaced by protamines during spermatogenesis and are essential for the compaction of DNA in sperm.

## External IDs:
* HGNC: 9217
* NCBI Entrez: 5544
* Ensembl: ENSG00000213604
* OMIM: 603421
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P04554

## AA Mutation List:
* No amino acid mutations have been reported for PRM1.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels:
* No somatic mutations have been reported for PRM1.

## Related Diseases:
* Infertility
* Male infertility

## Treatment and Prognosis:
* The treatment of infertility and male infertility can differ depending on the underlying etiology.
* Prognosis can also vary depending on factors such as age and the cause of infertility.

## Drug Response:
* There is currently no known drug response associated with PRM1 mutations.

## Related papers:
* Kimura Y, Yanagimachi R. Intracytoplasmic sperm injection in the mouse. Biol Reprod. 1995 Jul;53(1):4-8. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod53.1.4. PMID: 7540917. 
* Aoki VW, Emery BR, Liu L, Carrell DT. Protamine levels vary between individual sperm cells of infertile human males and correlate with viability and DNA integrity. J Androl. 2006 Jul-Aug;27(4):570-8. doi: 10.2164/jandrol.106.000260. PMID: 16751666.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**