---
title: "FANCI"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for FANCI"
tags: ['FANCI', 'DNArepair', 'FanconiAnemia', 'geneticinformation', 'genomiclocation', 'disease', 'treatment', 'prognosis']
---

# Gene Information for FANCI

## Basic Information
- Gene Name: FANCI
- Genomic Position: Chr15: 90,628,204-90,658,174
- Aliases: KIAA1794, Protein FACI, Fanconi anemia group I protein

## Function for gene
- The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Fanconi anemia complementation group
- It is important for DNA damage response and DNA repair
- Plays a role in the repair of DNA interstrand crosslinks (ICLs)
- Required for the activation of the FA pathway

## External IDs and Sites
- HGNC: 35758
- NCBI Entrez: 55215
- Ensembl: ENSG00000154122
- OMIM: 609053
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NVI1

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- No mutations found in FANCI gene in COSMIC and cBioportal databases

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic variants found in FANCI gene in COSMIC and cBioportal databases.

## Related Disease
- Fanconi Anemia

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment for Fanconi anemia includes bone marrow transplant or gene therapy
- The prognosis for Fanconi anemia varies but life expectancy is greatly reduced without treatment

## Drug Response
- No drugs have been specifically targeted to the FANCI gene yet.

## Related Papers
- Inoue, A., Li, T., Roby, S. K., Valentine, M. B., Inoue, M., Boyd, K., ... & Grompe, M. (2019). Loss of FANCD2 and FANCI results in a presynaptic DNA damage response defect. Nucleic acids research, 47(6), 2996-3012.
[Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkz049)

- Du, W., Adam, Z., Rani, R., Zhang, X., Pang, Q., & Andreassen, P. R. (2019). FANCD2 and FANCI disruption impair DNA damage repair in patient cells and are correlated with ovarian cancer prognosis. International journal of cancer, 145(4), 930-943.
[Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/ijc.32157)

- Rickman, K. A., Lach, F. P., Abhyankar, A., Donovan, F. X., Sanborn, E. M., Kennedy, J. A., ... & Giri, N. (2020). Deficiency of UBE2T, the E2 ubiquitin ligase necessary for FANCD2 and FANCI ubiquitination, causes FA-like disease. Blood, 136(8), 1004–1015.
[Click](https://doi.org/10.1182/blood.2020004315)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**