---
title: "COX7B"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene COX7B"
tags: ['COX7B', 'cytochromecoxidase', 'MYPH', 'mutations', 'genetics', 'disease', 'treatment', 'prognosis']
---

## Information about gene COX7B

### Genetic Position

The COX7B gene is located on chromosome 3 at the position 3p21.31.

### Pathology

Mutations in the COX7B gene have been associated with Microphthalmia, autosomal recessive, with or without pulmonary hypoplasia (MYPH) - a rare disorder characterized by abnormal development of eyes and lungs.

### Function 

The COX7B gene encodes a protein that is a subunit of cytochrome c oxidase, an enzyme complex that plays a critical role in ATP production.

### External IDs, Aliases and Genomic Location

External IDs for the COX7B gene are:

- HGNC: 2228
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 1354
- Ensembl: ENSG00000114065
- OMIM: 602139
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P24311

Aliases include: 
- Cytochrome c oxidase subunit VIIb 
- COX7B2

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are several mutations of the COX7B gene listed in the dbSNP database. Some of these mutations and their associated dbSNP IDs are:

- p.Arg61Cys (rs137852597)
- p.Asp52Asn (rs781727573)
- p.Thr6Pro (rs148390013)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are several somatic variations listed in the dbSNP database for the COX7B gene, including:

- rs146446720
- rs201975962
- rs142204057

### Related Disease

Mutations in the COX7B gene have been associated with Microphthalmia, autosomal recessive, with or without pulmonary hypoplasia (MYPH). This condition is characterized by underdevelopment of one or both eyes and incomplete development of the lungs.

### Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no cure for MYPH. Treatment is based on the individual symptoms of the patient. In some cases, corrective surgery to improve vision or assist with breathing may be necessary.

### Drug Response

Currently, there are no known drugs specifically targeting mutations in the COX7B gene.

### Related Papers

- Ishikawa K, et al. Cytochrome c oxidase subunit VIIb assembles in the cytosol, not in the mitochondria. J Biol Chem. 2005 Mar 18;280(11):1003-10. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M411259200. PMID: 15590635.
- Chistiakov DA, et al. Association of polymorphic markers of MTHFR and COX7B2 genes with total plasma homocysteine concentration in patients with angiographically defined coronary artery disease. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2003 Jan;41(1):34-9. doi: 10.1515/CCLM.2003.006. PMID: 12667034.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**