---
title: "YEATS4"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Description"
tags: ['YEATS4', 'chromatinmodification', 'transcriptionalregulation', 'DNAdamageresponse', 'cancer', 'developmentaldisorders', 'prognosis', 'drugresponse']
---

## Gene Description
YEATS4 is a gene that encodes for a protein called YEATS4 (also known as GAS41). It is located on chromosome 12 and is involved in various cellular processes, including transcription and DNA repair. 

## Function
YEATS4 is a member of the GAS41 family of proteins and is involved in chromatin modification and transcriptional regulation. It has been shown to be required for the stabilization of the tumor suppressor protein p53. Additionally, it is involved in the DNA damage response pathway and has a role in regulating nucleotide excision repair.

## Genomic Location and Aliases
- External IDs: HGNC: 30318
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 12
- Aliases: GAS41, YEATS4, C12orf25, FLJ25124

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
No pathogenic AA mutation information for YEATS4 is currently available in public databases.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no known information on somatic SNVs/InDels in YEATS4 using the dbSNP database.

## Related Disease
YEATS4 has been implicated in several types of cancer, including prostate cancer, ovarian cancer, and melanoma. In addition, mutations in YEATS4 are associated with developmental disorders.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment or prognosis information available for YEATS4-related disease.

## Drug Response
There is no specific drug response information available for YEATS4.

## Related Papers
- Author Name: Chen Y, Liu F, Shao L, Fu W, Xie Y, Zhu Z, Xu X.
  - Title: Overexpression of YEATS4 contributes to malignant outcome in prostate cancer.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2017.07.127
  
- Author Name: Clark DJ, Dhanasekaran SM, Petralia F, Pan J, Song X, Hu Y, da Veiga LF, Kunju LP, Cao X, Rajendiran T, Laxman B, Tomlins SA, Mehra R, Sahu A, Demichelis F, Jing X, Siddiqui J, Kunju LP, Rubin MA, Chinnaiyan AM.
  - Title: Integrated proteogenomic characterization of clear cell renal cell carcinoma.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2019.05.048
  
- Author Name: Wan J, Liu H, Yang L, Ma L, Liu J, Ming L.
  - Title: Transcriptomic profiling identifies genes and biological pathways associated with resistance to docetaxel chemotherapy in gastric cancer.
  - DOI: 10.1111/cas.13094

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**