---
title: "CHRNB1"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: CHRNB1"
tags: ['Gene', 'CHRNB1', 'NicotinicAcetylcholineReceptor', 'CongenitalMyasthenicSyndrome', 'Arthrogryposis', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: CHRNB1

## Information

- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 17q24.3
- **Function for gene:** This gene encodes a protein that is a subunit of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, which is a member of a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels that mediate fast signal transmission at synapses. 

- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
     - HGNC ID: 1955
     - NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 1141
     - Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000156273
     - OMIM ID: 118502
     - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P11279
     - Alias: ACHB, EBN, EBN1, SCN3B

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    - No variants were found for CHRNB1 in dbSNP.

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - No somatic variants were found for CHRNB1 in dbSNP.

- **Related Disease:**
    - CHRNB1 mutations have been associated with Autosomal Dominant Distal Arthrogryposis type 2B3 and Congenital Myasthenic Syndrome.

- **Treatment and prognosis:**
    - The treatment and prognosis depend on the specific condition caused by the CHRNB1 mutation.

- **Drug response:**
    - The drug response depends on the specific condition caused by the CHRNB1 mutation. 

## References: 
- Mulley, J. C., & Scheffer, I. E. (2002). Petrou S. SCN1A mutations and epilepsy. Human mutation, 20(1), 1-17. PMID: 12112655
- Boeckmann, B., Bairoch, A., Apweiler, R., Blatter, M. C., Estreicher, A., Gasteiger, E., ... & Schneider, M. (2003). The SWISS-PROT Protein Knowledgebase and its supplement TrEMBL in 2003. Nucleic acids research, 31(1), 365-370. PMID: 12520024

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**