---
title: "DPP6"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene DPP6 Information"
tags: ['DPP6', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'GeneMutations', 'IonChannelModulation', 'Schizophrenia', 'Epilepsy', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'AntipsychoticMedication']
---

## Gene DPP6 Information

### Genetic Position

The DPP6 gene is located on chromosome 7 at the position 7q36.3.

### Pathology

DPP6 is linked to various neurological disorders. Mutations in this gene may cause several behavioral, cognitive, and psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, epilepsy, and autism spectrum disorder. 

### Function

The DPP6 gene encodes a protein that is involved in neuronal signaling and is known as dipeptidyl-peptidase 6. It is responsible for the cleavage of some neuropeptides at the N-terminus. Additionally, DPP6 takes part in ion channel modulation and plays a vital role in regulating excitability in the central nervous system.

### External IDs, Aliases and Genomic location

- **HGNC ID:** HGNC:3032
- **NCBI Entrez ID:** 1808
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000106355
- **OMIM ID:** 604619
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q9UDW8
- **Aliases:** DPPX, DIAR7, DPRP2, DRP2, MRX58

### AA Mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

A database search reveals 155 variants in the DPP6 gene. Here are some frequent AA mutations in the DPP6 gene:

|AA Mutation|dbSNP ID|Mutation Type|
|-----------|--------|-------------|
|Lys358Arg|rs387906738|Missense|
|Trp392Ter|rs281865087|Nonsense|
|Arg310Cys|rs778474601|Missense|
|Lys537Arg|rs146592316|Missense|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There is no record of somatic SNVs/InDels found for the DPP6 gene.

### Related Disease

Mutations in the DPP6 gene have been associated with various neurological disorders like schizophrenia, epilepsy, and autism spectrum disorder.

### Treatment and Prognosis

There is no known cure for conditions related to DPP6 gene mutations. Treatment options are based on the potential symptoms. Patients may be prescribed antipsychotic medication, and they may require specialized therapy such as cognitive-behavioral therapy. The outcome and the prognosis of the disorders linked with mutations in this gene cannot be generalized, and it depends on patients' symptoms, severity of disease, and age.

### Drug Response

There is no specific drug developed for DPP6-related diseases yet. Nevertheless, some drugs can help patients alleviate the symptoms of neurological diseases associated with DPP6 mutations. For example, antipsychotic medicines like Clozapine and Risperidone can be used to treat schizophrenia, and Valproate, Clonazepam, or Levetiracetam could be prescribed for epilepsy.

### Related Papers

- By Subject: [DPP6 Gene Mutations]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/?term=DPP6+gene+mutations)) 
- By Author: [Stopkova P]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/?term=Stopkova+P))
- DOI: [10.1086/378818]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1086/378818))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**