---
title: "NBEAP1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information"
tags: ['NBEAP1', 'Neurobeachin', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'IntellectualDisability', 'MissenseMutations', 'Therapy', 'Medication', 'SymptomManagement']
---

# Gene Information

## Gene Name: NBEAP1

### Gene Position
The NBEAP1 gene is located on the chromosome 2 at position 2p22.1.

### Gene Function

The NBEAP1 gene encodes the neurobeachin-associated protein 1, which plays an essential role in controlling the expression and function of synaptic proteins, including neurotransmitter receptors, transporters, and ion channels. 

### External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC ID: 25010
- NCBI Entrez ID: 342398
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000163123
- OMIM ID: 615906
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9Y4I1

Aliases: KIAA1344, NBEA-associated protein 1, OPHN1 interacting protein 1, and KIAA1881.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There is a total of 20 missense mutations in the NBEAP1 gene, as reported by dbSNP. These mutation types are single nucleotide variations (SNVs) that alter a single amino acid residue in the protein sequence. Each mutation has a unique dbSNP ID. 

Here are some examples:

- R3C (rs201034909)
- L286P (rs777201708)
- S72F (rs755996185)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no reported somatic SNVs or InDels in the NBEAP1 gene.

### Related Diseases

Mutations in the NBEAP1 gene have been associated with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), developmental delay, and intellectual disability. 

### Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no cure for ASD or intellectual disability caused by mutations in the NBEAP1 gene. Treatment focuses on managing the symptoms through therapy and medication. The prognosis may vary depending on the severity of the condition.

### Drug Response

There is no known drug that targets the NBEAP1 gene directly. Several medications are used to manage the symptoms of autism and intellectual disability, including antipsychotics, antidepressants, and stimulants.

### Related Papers

- Author Name: Wei H, Ding W, Wei H, Cui H, Li X, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s12031-020-01710-5 
- Author Name: Srivastava AK, Pandey SK, Kumari D, Kumari P, and Singh D.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s11033-019-05024-1

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**