---
title: "ACE"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene ACE"
tags: ['ACEgene', 'angiotensinconvertingenzyme', 'bloodpressure', 'cardiovasculardisease', 'ACEinhibitors', 'geneticvariants', 'drugresponse', 'hypertension']
---

## Gene ACE

- **Function:** The ACE gene encodes an enzyme called angiotensin-converting enzyme, which plays a crucial role in the regulation of blood pressure and fluid balance, as well as in the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS).

- **External IDs and Genomic Location:**
  - HGNC: 2707
  - NCBI Entrez: 1636
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000159640
  - OMIM: 106180
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P12821
  - Genomic Location: Chromosome 17 (17q23.3)

- **Aliases:** ACE, CD143, DCP, DCP1

- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID:**
  - p.A14V (rs4311)
  - p.I/D (insertion/deletion, rs1799752)

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** Not available

- **Related Disease:** 
  - Cardiovascular diseases (including hypertension, stroke, and heart failure)
  - Renal diseases (including diabetic nephropathy)
  - Alzheimer's disease
  - Sarcoidosis

- **Treatment and Prognosis:** 
  - ACE inhibitors are a class of pharmaceuticals that block the activity of ACE. They are often used to treat cardiovascular diseases and other conditions associated with high blood pressure.
  - Prognosis varies depending on the disease and individual patient factors.

- **Drug Response:** 
  - Response to ACE inhibitors can vary depending on factors such as genetics, sex, and age. Individuals with specific genetic variants may respond differently to these drugs, which can affect their effectiveness and potential side effects.

- **Subject, Author Name, DOI links to Related Papers:**
  - Kostis JB, Kim HJ, Rusnak J, Casale T, Kaplan A, Corren J, Eckfeldt JH, Lacy CR, Wilson AC, Tuomilehto J, Cavanaugh PF Jr, Wong ND, Massie BM, Levy D, Cheng JQ, Quon CY, Svensson M, Bakris GL. Incidence and characteristics of angioedema associated with enalapril. Arch Intern Med. 2005 Aug 8-22;165(15):1637-42. doi: 10.1001/archinte.165.15.1637. PMID: 16087825.
  - Kreutz R, Algharably EAE, Azizi M, Dobrowolski P, Guzik T, Januszewicz A, Persu A, Prejbisz A, Riemer TG, Wang JG, Burnier M. Hypertension, the renin-angiotensin system, and the risk of lower respiratory tract infections and lung injury: Implications for COVID-19. Cardiovasc Res. 2020 Oct 15;116(13):1688-1699. doi: 10.1093/cvr/cvaa214. Epub 2020 Aug 31. PMID: 32865538.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**