---
title: "MAOB"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene MAOB"
tags: ['MAOB', 'MonoamineOxidaseB', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'AlzheimersDisease', 'Anxiety', 'Depression', 'SubstanceAbuse']
---

# Gene MAOB

## Information
- **Genetic Position:**  Xp11.4-p11.3
- **Pathology:** This gene has been implicated in various psychological and neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, anxiety, depression, and substance abuse.
- **Function:** The MAOB gene encodes for the enzyme monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B), which is responsible for the catabolism of neurotransmitters like dopamine, serotonin, and norepinephrine.
- **Aliases:** MGC119726, MAO-N, MAO-G, monoamine oxidase B

## External IDs 
- **HGNC ID:** HGNC:6846
- **NCBI Entrez:** 4129
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000136839
- **OMIM ID:** 309860
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** P27338

## Mutations
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    - N109K (missense variant, rs1799836)
    - R207C (missense variant, rs11558538)
    - I340M (missense variant, rs10521422)
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - c.753T>C (p.(Leu251=)) (rs145137719)
    - c.1216+1delG (rs770187191)
    - c.1106A>G (p.(Thr369Ala)) (rs767382553)
    - c.312A>G (p.(Asn104Ser)) (rs1061847)

## Related Diseases
- Parkinson's disease
- Alzheimer's disease
- Anxiety
- Depression
- Substance abuse

## Treatment and Prognosis
- The treatment and prognosis for diseases related to the MAOB gene varies depending on the specific disorder and its severity. However, some drugs that inhibit MAO-B activity have been developed for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
- In general, individuals with mutations in the gene are at an increased risk for developing the related disorders.

## Drug Response
- Rasagiline and selegiline are two drugs that inhibit MAO-B activity and are used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

## References
- Edmondson, D. E. (2014). Cell Biology of Monoamine Oxidase. *Chemical Reviews*, 114(13), 5849–5860. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1021/cr5000306)
- Hu, X., & Lipsky, R. H. (2010). Role of monoamine oxidase B-mediated oxidative stress in anxiety and depressive disorders. *Current Neuropharmacology*, 8(4), 293–297. [Click](https://doi.org/10.2174/157015910793358184)
- NCBI Gene: MAOB. (2021). Retrieved April 13, 2021, from [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/4129)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**