---
title: "GDF6"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: GDF6"
tags: ['GDF6', 'TGFbeta', 'DevelopmentalDisorders', 'BoneTissueEngineering', 'CartilageRepair', 'MultidisciplinaryManagement', 'Osteoarthritis', 'VesicoureteralReflux']
---

# Gene: GDF6

* Gene Function:  
The GDF6 gene encodes a member of the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) superfamily of signaling proteins. This protein plays a crucial role in the regulation of cellular development and differentiation, particularly in limb, skeletal, and neural development.

* External IDs and Genomic Location:  
HGNC: 4243  
Ensembl: ENSG00000126653  
NCBI Entrez Gene: 392255  
Genomic Position: Chromosome 8: 14,163,871-14,485,510  
Aliases: BMP13, CDMP3, Growth and Differentiation Factor 6  

* AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:  
p.Arg302Trp (rs2839698), p.Arg329Gln (rs61747728), p.Cys438Trp (rs61747729), p.Asp276Asn (rs76751234), p.Asp360Asn (rs150909146), p.Ala382Pro (rs61753749), p.Glu391Gly (rs61747730), p.Pro196Arg (rs61753748).

* Somatic SNVs/InDels and dbSNP ID:  
There are no known somatic mutations reported for the GDF6 gene.

* Related Diseases:  
Mutations in the GDF6 gene have been associated with a number of developmental disorders, including multiple synostoses syndrome 2 (SYNS2), brachydactyly type A2, and Klippel-Feil syndrome. Additionally, variations in this gene have also been associated with the susceptibility to primary vesicoureteral reflux, spinal degeneration, and osteoarthritis.

* Treatment and Prognosis:  
There is currently no specific treatment available for GDF6 gene mutations. Treatment depends on the symptoms and severity of the disorder. Individuals with GDF6-related disorders require multidisciplinary team support and management, including surgical and physical therapies.

* Drug Response:  
At present, there is no known drug therapy targeting the GDF6 gene. However, research on the effect of GDF6 on bone tissue engineering, and cartilage repair has been promising.

* Related papers:  
1. [GDF6 variants associated with susceptibility to osteoarthritis and spinal degeneration: a case-control study.]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24468376/)  
2. [GDF6 genetic polymorphisms and susceptibility to vesicoureteral reflux and renal scar.]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26187698/)  
3. [Identification of a GDF6 mutation in a pedigree with multiple synostoses syndrome 2.]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20456479/)  

***Author: AI assistant  
Date: 22/07/2021***

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**