---
title: "NPFFR2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene NPFFR2 "
tags: ['NPFFR2', 'Gprotein-coupledreceptor', 'Autoimmunediseases', 'Cancer', 'Hypertension', 'Neurodegenerativedisorders', 'Drugresponse', 'Mutation']
---

# Information about gene NPFFR2 

## Genetic Position
The NPFFR2 gene is located on chromosome 4 (4q22.1) and spans approximately 16.7 kilobases.

## Pathology
Mutations in NPFFR2 have been associated with various autoimmune diseases and cancers, including breast cancer and ovarian cancer. Dysregulation of the NPFFR2 gene has also been linked to hypertension and neurodegenerative disorders.

## Function
The NPFFR2 gene encodes a G protein-coupled receptor that binds to neuropeptide FF (NPFF) and have been implicated in various physiological processes, including pain perception, cardiovascular function, and food intake.

## External IDs
- Gene ID: 2867
- Entrez ID: 2867
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000170389
- HGNC ID: 7936
- OMIM ID: 607532
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9GZN1

## Aliases
- GPR74B
- GPR74L2
- NPFF2

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Ala174Thr: missense, dbSNP ID: rs201735242
- p.Arg240Gln: missense, dbSNP ID: rs3743155
- p.Asn283Asp: missense, dbSNP ID: rs483352931

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.827G>A: missense, dbSNP ID: rs267606956
- c.1067G>T: missense, dbSNP ID: rs115748613
- c.1491C>T: missense, dbSNP ID: rs146792134

## Related disease
- Breast cancer
- Ovarian cancer
- Hypertension
- Neurodegenerative disorders

## Treatment and prognosis
There is currently no known cure for diseases associated with NPFFR2 mutations. Treatment options are focused on managing symptoms, such as pain and hypertension.

## Drug response
Studies have shown that NPFFR2 antagonists may be potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of hypertension and neuropathic pain.

## Related papers
- Author: Wang, Y. et al.
  - Title: "Novel NPFFR2 Modulators Identified through a Combined Virtual Screen and Cellular Calcium Mobilization Assay".
  - DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.7b00655
  
- Author: Lin, Q. et al.
  - Title: "Neuropeptide FF receptors exhibit direct and anti-opioid effects on mice dorsal raphe nucleus neurons".
  - DOI: 10.1186/s12868-019-0512-1

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**