---
title: "TFB1M"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: TFB1M"
tags: ['TFB1M', 'MitochondrialDisorders', 'GeneExpression', 'Mutation', 'MitochondrialMyopathy', 'Encephalomyopathy', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'OpticAtrophy']
---

# Gene Information: TFB1M

## Genetic Position
TFB1M gene is located on chromosome 6q25.1.

## Pathology
Mutations in the TFB1M gene have been reported to cause mitochondrial disorders, including mitochondrial myopathy.

## Function
The TFB1M gene encodes a protein called transcription factor B1 mitochrondrial (TFB1M), which is essential for the transcription of mitochondrial DNA. TFB1M plays a critical role in the regulation of mitochondrial gene expression and is necessary for the proper functioning of mitochondria.

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- Gene ID: 51271
- Genomic Location: 6q25.1
- Alias: TFBM1, TFBM2, C6orf145

## External Sites
- HGNC: 11818
- NCBI Entrez: 51271
- Ensembl: ENSG00000112668
- OMIM: 609194
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y5J9

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Asp39Glufs*14: Frameshift mutation leading to a truncated protein with altered function. (dbSNP ID: rs782981047)
- p.Asp39Gly: Missense mutation resulting in the replacement of aspartic acid with glycine. (dbSNP ID: rs774294259)
- p.Asp39Tyr: Missense mutation leading to the replacement of aspartic acid with tyrosine. (dbSNP ID: rs139630097)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic mutations in the TFB1M gene have been reported in the literature to date.

## Related Disease
Mutations in TFB1M have been associated with mitochondrial disorders, including mitochondrial myopathy and encephalomyopathy.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment or cure for mitochondrial disorders caused by TFB1M mutations. Treatment is usually supportive and may include physical therapy, medication, and symptom management. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the underlying mitochondrial disorder.

## Drug Response
There is currently no information available on drug response related to TFB1M mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Molecular analysis of TFB1M gene in a cohort of Tunisian patients with mitochondrial disease
- Author: Amira Ben Rhouma, et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2016.11.006

- Subject: Haploinsufficiency of TFBIM1 causes mitochondrial dysfunction and optic atrophy
- Author: Rafael Simón, et al.
- DOI: 10.1038/ng.2925 

- Subject: Two alternatively spliced human mitochondrial transcription factor B1 isoforms in human colon carcinoma
- Author: Elena V. Sviderskiy, et al.
- DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2017.3881

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**