---
title: "PNPO"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: PNPO"
tags: ['PNPO', "Pyridoxine5'-phosphateoxidasedeficiency", 'VitaminB6', 'Enzyme', 'Missensemutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'MCAHS5']
---

## Gene: PNPO

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 8
- Start position: 98,052,377 bp
- End position: 98,083,874 bp

### Pathology
- PNPO gene mutations are associated with pyridoxine 5'-phosphate oxidase deficiency, which causes neonatal epileptic encephalopathy, microcephaly, developmental delay, and seizures.

### Function
- The PNPO gene encodes the pyridoxine 5'-phosphate oxidase enzyme that is part of the vitamin B6 metabolism pathway. This enzyme is responsible for converting pyridoxine 5'-phosphate to pyridoxal 5'-phosphate, which is a co-factor for many enzymes involved in various processes, including neurotransmitter synthesis.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 9182
- NCBI Entrez: 55758
- Ensembl: ENSG00000071316
- OMIM: 610090
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BZQ3
- Aliases: PNPOA, PROTO

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg225His (rs137852670): Missense
- p.Gly232Arg (rs137852671): Missense
- p.Val278Ala (rs137852672): Missense
- p.Gly279Glu (rs137852673): Missense
- p.Val331Leu (rs137852674): Missense
- p.Arg41Leu (rs148573478): Missense
- p.Gln146Arg (rs755272393): Missense

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels reported with dbSNP ID.

### Related Disease
- Pyridoxine 5'-phosphate oxidase deficiency

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment includes administering pyridoxal 5'-phosphate supplements to bypass the PNPO enzyme deficiency. The prognosis for individuals with this deficiency is usually poor if left untreated.

### Drug Response
- No known drug response reported for PNPO gene mutations.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Pyridoxine 5'-phosphate oxidase deficiency
- Author: Campistol J, et al.
- DOI: 10.1007/s00431-019-03484-3

- Subject: A PNPO variant associated with multiple congenital anomalies-hypotonia-seizures syndrome (MCAHS5) is a mild hypomorph
- Author: Mills PB, et al.
- DOI: 10.1002/humu.23693.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**