---
title: "ALOX12B"
date: 2023-04-13 00:00:00
summary: "## Information about Gene ALOX12B"
tags: ['# Information about Gene ALOX12B', '## Function of Gene', '## External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, and Aliases', '## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID', '## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID', '## Related Disease', '## Treatment and Prognosis', '## Drug Response', '## Related papers']
---

## Information about Gene ALOX12B

### Function of Gene
Gene ALOX12B, also known as Arachidonate 12-Lipoxygenase, 12R-type, is responsible for encoding the protein that belongs to the lipoxygenase family. This enzyme reacts with a variety of fatty acids found within the lipid cell membrane and catalyzes their oxygenation to produce leukotrienes and hydroperoxides. These lipid products are involved in multiple biological pathways, including inflammation modulation, lipid homeostasis, and cell differentiation.

### External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, and Aliases
- HGNC: 501
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 242
- Ensembl: ENSG00000132104
- OMIM: 603741
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O75342

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- PHS-19fs, frameshift mutation, rs797044294
- H240P, missense mutation, rs104886117
- G483R, missense mutation, rs61733717

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c. 604A>G, p. K202R, rs36071137
- c.130G>T, p.A44S, rs368912755

### Related Disease
- Autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis (ARCI), which is a rare skin disorder caused by mutations in the ALOX12B gene.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Patients with ARCI require life-long treatment with emollients, retinoids, keratolytics, and antibiotics. However, there is no cure for this disease, and the prognosis tends to be poor, as it often causes severe symptoms.
 
### Drug Response
- There is currently no standard pharmacological treatment specifically targeting ALOX12B gene etiology. However, some studies suggest that corticosteroids, topical apremilast, topical calcipotriol, or topical tacrolimus could improve skin symptoms of congenital ichthyosis.

### Related papers
1. **Subject:** ALOX12B missense mutation in a patient with mild non-bullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma.  
  **Author:** Mashiah J, et al.  
  **DOI:** 10.1111/jdv.14541

2. **Subject:** The arachidonate 12-lipoxygenase, 12R-lox, and its involvement in diseases.  
  **Author:** Radmark O, et al.  
  **DOI:** 10.1002/mc.20991  

3. **Subject:** Cutaneous gene expression of type I interferon, chemokines and chemokine receptors in patients with autosomal recessive ichthyosis: A preliminary study.  
  **Author:** Chan YC, et al.  
  **DOI:** 10.3858/emm.2010.42.6.035