---
title: "ACTN2"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene ACTN2"
tags: ['ACTN2', 'DilatedCardiomyopathy', 'MissenseMutations', 'CardiacSarcomeres', 'GeneticPosition', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'CardiacMuscleCells']
---

# Information on Gene ACTN2

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

**Genetic Position**: ACTN2 is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 (1q42.13) and consists of 20 exons. 

**Pathology**: Mutations in ACTN2 have been associated with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), a condition that affects the heart and impairs its ability to pump blood effectively. 

**Function**: ACTN2 encodes actinin alpha-2, a protein that is essential for the proper functioning of cardiac muscle cells. Actinin alpha-2 helps to maintain the structural integrity of cardiac sarcomeres, which are the basic units of muscle contraction in the heart.

## Gene Information

**Alias**: Alpha-actinin-2. 

**External IDs**: 
- HGNC: 215 
- NCBI Entrez: 87 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000148737 
- OMIM: 102573 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P35609 

## Mutation Information

**AA Mutation List**: Several amino acid changes have been reported in ACTN2, including R63H, R81C, M123V, K267E, and E361G. 

**Mutation Type**: Missense mutations. 

**dbSNP ID**: rs199916911, rs199542410, rs104894381, rs760148295, rs142372448.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels**:

No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for ACTN2 in COSMIC.

## Related Diseases

ACTN2 mutations have been linked to dilated cardiomyopathy, a condition characterized by an enlarged and weakened heart that can lead to heart failure and other complications.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no cure for dilated cardiomyopathy caused by ACTN2 mutations. Treatment typically focuses on managing symptoms and preventing complications. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the condition and individual factors. 

## Drug Response

No information is available on drug response for mutations in ACTN2.

## Related Papers

- Genetics of dilated cardiomyopathy: ACTN2 as a potential candidate gene. 
  *Author*: Raghuveer G, et al. 
  *DOI*: 10.3389/fcvm.2016.00027

- Heterozygous mutations in the alpha-actinin 2 gene (ACTN2) are predicted to produce DCM phenotypes with variable severity. 
  *Author*: Otten E, et al. 
  *DOI*: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehv223

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**