---
title: "SFTPC"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene SFTPC"
tags: ['SFTPC', 'LungDisease', 'SurfactantProteinC', 'GeneticMutation', 'PulmonaryFibrosis', 'RespiratoryDistressSyndrome', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information on Gene SFTPC

## Gene Position
The SFTPC gene is located at the genomic position 8p21.3-p21.1.

## Pathology and Function
SFTPC is a gene that encodes pulmonary surfactant-associated protein C (SP-C), which is a crucial component of the surfactant system in lungs. SP-C helps reduce the surface tension of alveolar fluid, thereby contributing to the stability and function of alveoli. Mutations in SFTPC have been linked to various lung diseases, such as interstitial lung disease, neonatal respiratory distress syndrome, and pulmonary fibrosis.

## External IDs, Genomic Location, and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 10634
- NCBI Entrez ID: 6440
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000120708
- OMIM ID: 178620
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P11686
- Genomic location: Chromosome 8: 27,373,294-27,384,683
- Aliases: SFTP2, SMDP2, PSP-C

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.301C>T (p.Pro101Leu) - rs137853037
- c.73G>A (p.Met25Ile) - rs137853057
- c.265T>C (p.Leu89Pro) - rs760881755

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.301C>T (p.Pro101Leu) - rs137853037

## Related Disease
- Pulmonary fibrosis
- Interstitial lung disease
- Adult respiratory distress syndrome
- Acute respiratory distress syndrome
- Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment for lung diseases is generally supportive, involving oxygen therapy and mechanical ventilation, in severe cases lung transplantation may be necessary.
- The prognosis can vary depending on the specific lung disease and its severity. Some individuals may improve with treatment, while others may experience progressive decline.

## Drug Response
- Personalized treatment for lung diseases may be based on the specific genetic mutations involved in a patient's condition.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Genetic analysis of familial and sporadic Idiopathic Interstitial Pneumonias
  - Author: Borie, R et al.
  - DOI: 10.1183/13993003.00335-2019
- Subject: Surfactant protein C mutation-associated lung disease: from clinical to protein
  - Author: Guillot, L et al.
  - DOI: 10.1186/s13023-020-01490-y

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**