---
title: "NCF1C"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: NCF1C"
tags: ['NCF1C', 'Pseudogene', 'ChronicGranulomatousDisease', 'Immunodeficiency', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Pathophysiology']
---

# Gene Information: NCF1C

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 7
- Location: 7q11.23

## Pathology
- The NCF1C gene is associated with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), an inherited immunodeficiency disorder characterized by recurrent infections due to impaired neutrophil function.
- NCF1C is a pseudogene and cannot produce a functional protein. However, mutations in the functional gene, NCF1, which is located nearby on the same chromosome, can affect the expression and function of NCF1C.

## Function
- NCF1C does not have a known function as it is a pseudogene.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 7724
- NCBI Entrez: 653361
- Ensembl: ENSG00000241599
- OMIM: 233690
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Not applicable (pseudogene)
- Alias: NCF1B

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type
- NCF1C is a pseudogene and does not have mutations that lead to amino acid changes.
- Mutations in the functional gene NCF1 can affect the expression and function of NCF1C.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Not applicable (pseudogene)

## Related Disease
- Chronic Granulomatous Disease

## Treatment and Prognosis
- The treatment for CGD involves long-term antibiotic prophylaxis and cellular therapy such as bone marrow transplantation.
- Patients with CGD have an increased risk of infections and inflammation. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disease and the age of onset.

## Drug Response
- Not applicable (pseudogene)

## Related Papers
- Author: Cox, James A.,
  - Title: The molecular basis of chronic granulomatous disease
  - DOI: 10.1038/nrmicro1232
- Author: Segal, Brahm H.,
  - Title: Review: Chronic Granulomatous Disease: Recent Advances in Pathophysiology and Treatment
  - DOI: 10.1002/hep.31581

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**