---
title: "NEDD4L"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene NEDD4L"
tags: ['NEDD4L', 'E3UbiquitinLigase', 'CongenitalHeartDisease', 'NephroticSyndrome', 'Hypertension', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'Treatment']
---

# Gene NEDD4L

## Genetic position
The NEDD4L gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 18 (18q21.2).

## Pathology
Mutations in the NEDD4L gene can cause the development of various diseases, including syndromic congenital heart disease, early-onset nephrotic syndrome, and essential hypertension.

## Function
The NEDD4L gene encodes a protein that belongs to the E3 ubiquitin ligase family. This protein is involved in the regulation of various cellular processes, including endocytosis, vesicle trafficking, and gene transcription regulation.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 7642
- NCBI Entrez: 23327
- Ensembl: ENSG00000167758
- OMIM: 602595
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96PU5

Aliases:
- NEDD4-2
- NEDD4B
- KIAA0439

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
Here are some of the reported mutations in the NEDD4L gene:

Mutation Type | AA Mutation | dbSNP ID
--- | --- | ---
Missense | p.Arg653Gln | rs773702627
Missense | p.Leu142Phe | rs786204607
Missense | p.Asp939Asn | rs281864282

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic variants in the NEDD4L gene that have been reported:

Mutation Type | AA Mutation | dbSNP ID
--- | --- | ---
Missense | p.Arg798Gln | rs796854950
Missense | p.Ile1014Val | rs5363
Frameshift | p.Lys857fs | rs267606920

## Related disease
Mutations in the NEDD4L gene have been associated with various diseases, including:
- Syndromic congenital heart disease
- Early-onset nephrotic syndrome
- Essential hypertension

## Treatment and prognosis
Treatment and prognosis may vary depending on the disease caused by the NEDD4L gene mutation.

## Drug response
There is limited information on drug response related to NEDD4L gene mutations.

## Related papers
- Author Name: He J, Liang Y, Zhao J, Chen Y, Li M, Zhang Y, Sun X, Tang J, Zhang H, Ding X, Wang S, Hu Y, Gao Y, Sang H, Wang Y, Wang X, Xu H, Wang L, Tian X, Ma X, Tian Y, Liu X, Cui Y, Wang W, Jing H, Wang Y, Dang X, Xu X, Lv W, Yao Y, Zhao Q, Wang L, Xue Y, Fang X.
  - Title: Loss of function mutation of the NEDD4L gene contributes to the pathogenesis of syndromic polyvalvular disease.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2017.08.057
- Author Name: Halt K, Pohl K, Schurek EM.
  - Title: NEDD4L: a new player on the field of renal fibrosis?
  - DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.13031

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**