---
title: "CLOCK"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene CLOCK"
tags: ['GeneCLOCK', 'CircadianRhythms', 'SleepDisorders', 'BipolarDisorder', 'DepressiveDisorder', 'SubstanceAbuse', 'Mutation', 'Treatment']
---

# Information about Gene CLOCK

## Genetic position
The gene CLOCK is located on chromosome 4q12 in humans.

## Pathology
Mutations in the CLOCK gene have been associated with various disorders such as sleep disorders, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder, and substance abuse.

## Function
The CLOCK gene encodes a protein involved in the regulation of circadian rhythms. The protein forms a heterodimer with another protein called BMAL1 and together they activate the expression of various clock genes. The CLOCK-BMAL1 complex also regulates gene expression in other physiological processes such as metabolism and immune responses.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 1950
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 9575
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000138685
- OMIM ID: 601851
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: O15516
- Aliases: 
   - KAT13D
   - hCLOCK

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- V34A (rs1801260)
- T311I (rs3749474)
- G400R (rs3816358)
- Q521R (rs1554483)
- P555A (rs11133373)
- G626V (rs3816360)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic mutations in the CLOCK gene.

## Related Disease
Imbalance in the regulation of circadian rhythms has been associated with various disorders such as sleep disorders, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder, and substance abuse.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for disorders associated with the CLOCK gene varies depending on the specific disorder. For example, treatment for sleep disorders may include behavioral therapy and medication. The prognosis also varies depending on the specific disorder and severity.

## Drug response
There is currently limited information on how drugs affect the CLOCK gene.

## Related papers
- Subject: CLOCK gene mutations associated with human circadian rhythm disorders
- Author: Toh KL, Jones CR, He Y, Eide EJ, Hinz WA, Virshup DM, Ptáček LJ, Fu YH
- DOI: 10.1016/s0092-8674(02)00767-1
- PubMed ID: 12408813

- Subject: The role of CLOCK gene in psychiatric disorders: Evidence from human and animal research
- Author: LeGates TA, Fernandez DC, Hattar S
- DOI: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2015.07.001
- PubMed ID: 26193099

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**