---
title: "TGFBR2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: TGFBR2"
tags: ['TGFBR2', 'TGFbeta', 'cellsignaling', 'geneticmutations', 'diseaseassociations', 'drugdevelopment', 'supportivetreatment', 'prognosis']
---

# Gene: TGFBR2

## Introduction
TGFBR2 (Transforming Growth Factor Beta Receptor 2) is a protein-coding gene involved in the TGF-beta signaling pathway. This gene encodes a receptor that has a crucial role in cell differentiation, proliferation, apoptosis, and migration.

## Function for gene
TGFBR2 is involved with downstream signaling of the TGF-beta superfamily. In conjunction with TGFBR1, TGFBR2 mediates the effects of TGF-beta on various cellular processes including cell proliferation, differentiation, migration, and apoptosis.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC:11772
- NCBI Entrez:7048
- Ensembl: ENSG00000163513
- OMIM: 190182
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P37173
- Other aliases: MFS2, FAA3, LDS2, LDS2B

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.1230C>T (p.Arg410Cys), rs121908283
- c.994G>A (p.Gly332Ser), rs140961728
- c.942C>T (p.Thr314Met), rs121908280

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.1255A>G (p.Asp419Gly), rs3729845
- c.1316C>G (p.Pro439Ala), rs3729846
- c.1438A>G (p.Ser480Gly), rs35209743

## Related Disease
Mutations in the TGFBR2 gene are associated with numerous diseases, including:
- Colorectal cancer
- Loeys-Dietz syndrome
- Marfan syndrome
- Biliary atresia
- Metachondromatosis

## Treatment and prognosis
There is not currently a cure for mutations in the TGFBR2 gene. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive and may include medication, surgery, or other supportive measures. Prognosis varies depending on the specific disease and symptoms associated with the mutation.

## Drug response
Various drugs that target the TGF-beta pathway are being investigated for the treatment of diseases associated with TGFBR2 mutations. One promising drug is the TGFBR1 inhibitor LY2157299.

## Related papers
- "TGF-beta signaling: a tale of two receptors" by Rik Derynck and Yoko Miyazono. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.onc.1209427))
- "TGFBR2 inactivation in the tumour stroma promotes colorectal cancer progression and metastasis" by Mohammad Alyamani et al. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms14567))
- "Germline and somatic SMAD4 mutations in pancreatic cancer" by Jonathan Brody et al. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s40880-015-0060-3))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**