---
title: "TTC21B"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for TTC21B"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'TTC21B', 'Ciliopathies', 'CiliaFormation', 'Nephronophthisis', 'JoubertSyndrome', 'MeckelGruberSyndrome', 'SupportiveTreatment']
---

# Gene Information for TTC21B

## Gene Name and Aliases
- **Gene Name**: TTC21B
- **Aliases**: FLJ10774, KIAA1844, TMEM138

## Gene Function
- The TTC21B gene encodes for a protein called tetratricopeptide repeat domain-containing protein 21B (TTC21B) which is primarily involved in the formation and maintenance of cilia. Cilia are hair-like structures that protrude from the surface of cells and play an important role in various cellular processes, including sensing of environmental cues, movement of mucus and particles in the respiratory tract, and maintenance of the structure of certain organs.

## Genetic Position
- **Genomic Location**: Chromosome 2
- **Start Position**: 173,568,705 bp
- **End Position**: 173,650,547 bp

## External IDs and Links
- **HGNC ID**: HGNC:28782
- **NCBI Entrez Gene ID**: 55748
- **Ensembl Gene ID**: ENSG00000115977
- **OMIM ID**: 614178
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID**: Q86YV6

## Mutations
- **AA Mutation List**: p.Arg139Ter, p.Thr1453Ile, p.Arg1469Trp
- **Mutation Type**: Missense, Nonsense
- **dbSNP ID**: rs763285172, rs372684326, rs777237788

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- There is limited information available on somatic SNVs/InDels of the TTC21B gene. Further research is needed.

## Related Diseases
- Mutations in the TTC21B gene can lead to various ciliopathies, which are disorders caused by defects in cilia formation or function. Some of the ciliopathies associated with TTC21B mutations include:
  - Nephronophthisis
  - Senior-Loken syndrome
  - Joubert syndrome
  - Meckel-Gruber syndrome

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment for ciliopathies caused by TTC21B mutations is primarily supportive and symptomatic. It may involve management of respiratory and kidney function, as well as other affected organs. The prognosis for these conditions varies depending on the severity and specific features of the disease.

## Drug Response
- There is limited information available on drug response specific to ciliopathies caused by TTC21B mutations. Further research is needed.

---

*References*:
- Hopp, K., Heyer, C. M., Hommerding, C. J., Henke, S. A., Sundsbak, J. L., Patel, S., … Harris, P. C. (2011). Tetratricopeptide Repeat Domain 21A Is a Novel Ciliary Protein Involved in Polycystic Kidney Disease. *Kidney International*, 79(6), 636–646. doi: 10.1038/ki.2010.524
- Reiter, J. F., & Leroux, M. R. (2017). Genes and molecular pathways underpinning ciliopathies. *Nature Reviews Molecular Cell Biology*, 18(9), 533–547. doi: 10.1038/nrm.2017.60

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**