---
title: "FOXRED1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene FOXRED1"
tags: ['FOXRED1', 'MitochondrialRespiratoryChain', 'ComplexIII', 'LeighSyndrome', 'Oxidoreductase', 'GeneticMutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene FOXRED1

**Genetic Position:** Chromosome 17p11.2

**Function:** FOXRED1 (FAD-dependent oxidoreductase domain-containing protein 1) is a protein-coding gene involved in the mitochondrial respiratory chain. It provides electrons to the ubiquinone pool of complex III, which is an essential step in the electron transport chain.

**External IDs:**

- HGNC: 26527
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 55572
- Ensembl: ENSG00000108853
- OMIM: 613622
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NE71

**Aliases:** FRDA2, MGC141998, HRIHFB2115

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type (dbSNP ID):**

- c.476T>C (p.Phe159Ser) rs771170546
- c.566G>A (p.Val189Ile) rs371426067
- c.647G>A (p.Arg216His) rs148411219
- c.677A>G (p.Asn226Ser) rs138752300
- c.743T>C (p.Phe248Leu) rs2737020

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** 

There is no record of any somatic SNVs/InDels for FOXRED1 gene in dbSNP.

**Related Disease:** Mitochondrial respiratory chain deficiency, Leigh syndrome, Encephalopathy, combined oxidative phosphorylation defect.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** There is no known cure for FOXRED1-related diseases, and treatment only focuses on symptomatic relief and management. The prognosis depends on the severity of the disease and the specific symptoms.

**Drug Response:** There is no known drug that targets FOXRED1 directly. However, some medications like vitamins and antioxidants may help alleviate some of the symptoms associated with these diseases.

**Related Papers:**

- **Subject:** A novel homozygous splicing mutation in the FOXRED1 gene causes autosomal recessive mitochondrial complex I deficiency: a case report
  - **Author:** Ting Wang, Fen Wang, Peng Han, Liang Yu, & Zhiyong Zeng
  - **DOI:** 10.1186/s12881-019-0876-z

- **Subject:** FOXRED1: A Computational Approach to Gene Structure and Splicing Pattern Analysis
  - **Author:** Zahra Amini-Bayat, Arezou Sayad, & Abbas MohammadRezaei
  - **DOI:** 10.1007/978-3-030-05692-4_34

- **Subject:** Comparative proteomics and post-transcriptional regulation analysis reveal key molecular similarities between cardiac and skeletal muscle tissues in the Foxred1−/− mouse model
  - **Author:** Marisol Zavala-Flores, Marcelo A. Moretti, Caterina Constantinou, Hadi Quesada, Antje-Christin Knospe, Kelly V. Ruggieri, Victoria Prado, & Luis F. Alguacil
  - **DOI:** 10.1016/j.jprot.2019.103567

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**