---
title: "GNAS AS1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene GNAS-AS1"
tags: ['Summary', 'of', 'Gene', 'GNAS-AS1', 'Informati']
---

# Information about Gene GNAS-AS1

## Genetic Position
GNAS-AS1 is located at the chromosomal location 20q13.3.

## Pathology
Currently, there is no known pathology associated with GNAS-AS1.

## Function for Gene
GNAS-AS1 is a long non-coding RNA that is transcribed from the antisense strand of the GNAS gene. It has been found to play a role in the regulation of G protein signaling pathways.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 16521
- NCBI Entrez: 100131941
- Ensembl: ENSG00000270594
- OMIM: 139320
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: N/A
- Aliases: GNAS-AS1, NESPAS, Pseudogene_NM_001127330.1, XLas

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Currently, there are no reported amino acid (AA) mutations associated with GNAS-AS1 in the dbSNP database.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Currently, there are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels associated with GNAS-AS1 in the dbSNP database.

## Related Disease
Currently, there is no known disease associated with GNAS-AS1.

## Treatment and Prognosis
As there is no known pathology associated with GNAS-AS1, there is no established treatment or prognosis for any disease related to this gene.

## Drug Response
Currently, there is no established drug response associated with GNAS-AS1.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** The long non-coding RNA GNAS-AS1 regulates GNAS expression and is involved in fibrous dysplasia of bone.
- **Author Name:** Qu N, Li Y, Li J, et al.
- **DOI Link:** [10.1038/s41419-018-0374-6](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41419-018-0374-6))

- #GNAS-AS1
- #LongNonCodingRNA
- #RegulationOfGProteinSignalingPathways
- #NoKnownPathology
- #NoEstablishedTreatmentOrPrognosis
- #NoEstablishedDrugResponse
- #ChromosomalLocation20q13.3
- #RelatedPaperOnFibrousDysplasiaOfBone**
**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**