---
title: "DLC1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene DLC1"
tags: ['DLC1', 'TumorSuppressor', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

## Information about gene DLC1

### Gene information
- **Gene Name:** DLC1 (Deleted in liver cancer 1)
- **Function:** This gene encodes a GTPase-activating protein (GAP) that is thought to function as a tumor suppressor by inhibiting Rho family GTPases that promote cell proliferation, invasion, and metastasis.
- **Aliases:** ARHGAP7, STARD12

### Genomic location
- **Chromosome:** 8
- **Genomic coordinates:** 114,959,891-115,046,873
- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 2952
    - NCBI Entrez: 10395
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000124334
    - OMIM: 602116
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96QF6

### Mutation information
- **AA Mutation List:** A list of amino acid mutations in the DLC1 gene can be found on the UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot website ([Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/Q96QF6#variant_aa).)
- **Mutation Type:** The DLC1 gene is associated with missense and frameshift mutations, among others.
- **dbSNP ID:** rs137853340, rs137853341, rs137853342, and rs137853343 are some of the dbSNP IDs associated with DLC1 mutations.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
- Somatic mutations in the DLC1 gene have been identified in several cancer types, including lung cancer, gastric cancer, and breast cancer.
- **dbSNP ID:** Some of the dbSNP IDs associated with somatic SNVs/InDels in DLC1 include rs147982425, rs121434569, rs121434561, and rs775931117.

### Related disease
- **Disease:** DLC1 is associated with several types of cancer, including liver cancer, lung cancer, gastric cancer, and breast cancer.
- **Cancer type:** Liver cancer, lung cancer, gastric cancer, and breast cancer.

### Treatment and prognosis
- Treatment options for cancer caused by DLC1 mutations include surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy. The prognosis for patients with DLC1-associated cancers depends on various factors, such as the type and stage of the cancer, as well as the patient's overall health.

### Drug response
- Several drugs have been developed to target Rho family GTPases, and may have potential in treating cancer caused by DLC1 mutations.

### Papers
- **Subject:** The DLC1 tumor suppressor gene is frequently silenced by DNA methylation in hepatocellular carcinoma and predicts outcome
- **Author:** Wong et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1002/hep.23360
 
- **Subject:** The Rho GTPase activating protein, DLC1, is a critical mediator of HER2 signaling controlling cell migration and invasion in HER2 overexpressing breast cancer cells
- **Author:** Wong et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1371/journal.pone.0040492

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**