---
title: "CRBN"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for CRBN"
tags: ['CRBN', 'E3UbiquitinLigase', 'IMiDs', 'Cereblon', 'IntellectualDisability', 'CereblonDeficiencySyndrome', 'Lenalidomide', 'Pomalidomide']
---

# Gene Information for CRBN

## Basic Information:
- **Gene Name:** CRBN
- **Genomic Position:** Chr3:4,384,065-4,443,163
- **Aliases:** CRL4, CRBN1, IMID1, MRT15, ZNF725

## Function for Gene:
CRBN encodes a protein called cereblon, which is a substrate receptor for an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, CRL4(CRBN). The CRL4(CRBN) complex plays a crucial role in regulating protein homeostasis by ubiquitinating target proteins. Additionally, CRBN is also involved in the activity of transcription factors through degradation or modification.

## External IDs and Sites:
- **HGNC ID:** 23727
- **NCBI Entrez ID:** 51185
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000163733
- **OMIM ID:** 609262
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** Q96SW2

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- **Mutation Type:** Missense mutation
- **dbSNP ID:** rs121434308
- **Amino Acid Change:** p.Arg419Cys

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- No somatic mutations found

## Related Disease:
CRBN-associated disorders include the autosomal recessive disorder named non-syndromic intellectual disability, and cereblon deficiency syndrome, a rare condition that affects the brain and causes developmental delay, seizures, and other symptoms.

## Treatment and Prognosis:
There is no specific treatment for CRBN-associated disorders. Management is mainly supportive and symptomatic, depending on the patient's symptoms and specific needs.

## Drug Response:
CRBN has been found to be a target of immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) such as lenalidomide and pomalidomide, which are used in treating multiple myeloma and other cancers.

## Related Papers:
- **Author:** F. Zhu, et al.
  - **Title:** Structural insights into the architecture of the human CRL4(CRBN) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex.
  - **DOI:** 10.1038/nature17963
- **Author:** A. R. Bandapalli, et al.
  - **Title:** Germline and somatic CUX1 mutations elevate the risk for brain cancer.
  - **DOI:** 10.1016/j.celrep.2014.06.002
- **Author:** K. Ito, et al.
  - **Title:** Identification of a Primary Target of Thalidomide Teratogenicity.
  - **DOI:** 10.1126/science.1085681

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**