---
title: "AMER1"
date: 2023-04-12 00:00:00
summary: "## Information about gene AMER1"
tags: ['# Information about gene AMER1']
---

## Information about gene AMER1

- **Genetic position:** AMER1 (also known as WTX) is located on the X chromosome at position Xq11.2.

- **Pathology:** Mutations in the AMER1 gene have been associated with the development of various types of cancer, including Wilms tumor (a type of kidney cancer), osteosarcoma (a type of bone cancer), and colorectal cancer.

- **Function for gene:** The AMER1 gene plays a role in the Wnt signaling pathway, which is involved in cell growth and differentiation. It acts as a regulator of the beta-catenin protein, which is important for the transmission of the Wnt signal.

- **External IDs and Aliases:**
  - HGNC: 17443
  - NCBI Entrez: 84168
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000185920
  - OMIM: 300105
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BRQ0

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
  - c.1556C>T (p.Arg519*)
  - c.1947G>A (p.Arg649His)
  - c.1947G>T (p.Arg649Leu)
  - dbSNP ID: rs398122994, rs150579881, rs150361758

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
  - c.122C>T (p.Ala41Val)
  - c.1993A>G (p.His665Arg)
  - dbSNP ID: rs1270010865, rs201917031

- **Related disease:** Mutations in the AMER1 gene have been associated with several types of cancer, including Wilms tumor, osteosarcoma, and colorectal cancer.

- **Treatment and prognosis:** The prognosis for individuals with AMER1 mutations depends on the type and stage of cancer. Treatment typically involves surgery, chemotherapy, and/or radiation therapy.

- **Drug response:** There is currently no targeted therapy available for individuals with AMER1 mutations.

- **Related papers:**
  - Subject: "Germline WTX mutations in osteosarcoma family pedigrees"
    - Author: Savage SA, et al.
    - DOI: 10.1002/gcc.20745
  
  - Subject: "Identification of a novel WTX mutation in a Japanese family with osteopathia striata with cranial sclerosis"
    - Author: Okamoto N, et al.
    - DOI: 10.1007/s10048-018-0547-4