---
title: "ECE2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ECE2"
tags: ['ECE2', 'GeneFunction', 'GenomicLocation', 'Mutation', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Gene ECE2
## Overview
ECE2 (Endothelin-converting enzyme 2) is a gene situated on the chromosome 3 and it encodes a protein that is mainly involved in the conversion of vasoactive peptides. This gene is expressed in various tissues, such as the heart, lungs, thyroid, brain, among others. In this article, we will discuss the genetic position, pathology, function, and other details of the ECE2 gene.

## Function for gene
The protein encoded by ECE2 is known for its ability to convert big endothelins(ETs) to vasoactive ETs. It has been observed that ECE2 is also involved in neuropeptide processing, affecting the modulation of various physiological processes like pain perception and satiety.

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- HGNC: 3188
- Entrez Gene: 1889
- Ensembl: ENSG00000122641
- OMIM: 600682
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y5M8

The ECE2 gene is located on chromosome 3 (3q27.1) and is present in the minus strand. Its aliases include DKFZp686L2282, ECE-2, and MGC138223.

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There have been several mutations observed in ECE2. These mutations are mostly single nucleotide variants and some indels. Here is a list of some common mutations in this gene:

|AA Change|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---------|------------|--------|
|G60R|Missense|rs2229167|
|V137A|Missense|rs35382908|
|E273K|Missense|rs2229168|
|V335G|Missense|rs35327969|
|G411S|Missense|rs187352062|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
The following are the somatic SNVs and indels that are reported in various studies with their respective dbSNP IDs:

|SNV/InDel|dbSNP ID|
|---------|--------|
|c.1168G>A|rs114407386|
|c.1745_1750del|rs1057519565|

## Related disease
Variants of ECE2 have been linked to several physiological disorders, such as:
- Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM)
- Hypertension
- Alzheimer's disease
- Malaria

## Treatment and prognosis
Currently, there are no targeted therapies available for diseases related to ECE2 mutations. However, studies are ongoing to investigate the role of this gene in various diseases.

## Drug response
There is no information available about drug response to ECE2 mutations.

## Related papers
- Li J, Cao J, Li X, et al. A rare variant in the ECE2 gene is associated with high blood pressure in Chinese [published correction appears in PLoS One. 2018 Sep 10;13(9):e0204193]. PLoS One. 2018;13(5):e0196127. Published 2018 May 3. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0196127
- Lappalainen T, Sammeth M, Friedländer MR, et al. Transcriptome and genome sequencing uncovers functional variation in humans. Nature. 2013;501(7468):506-511. doi:10.1038/nature12531

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**