---
title: "PLCB4"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene PLCB4"
tags: ['PLCB4', 'PhospholipaseC', 'IntracellularSignaling', 'GeneticDisorders', 'SomaticMutations', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about gene PLCB4

## Genetic position, pathology, and function

The PLCB4 gene is located on chromosome 20 at position q12.3. This gene encodes a protein called Phospholipase C beta 4, which is implicated in the generation of intracellular second messengers following activation of G protein-coupled receptors and receptor tyrosine kinases. PLCB4 has been found to play a role in intracellular Ca2+ signaling, synaptic plasticity, and gastrointestinal smooth muscle contraction. Additionally, this gene is associated with several genetic disorders, including hypoparathyroidism-retardation-dysmorphism syndrome, Griscelli syndrome type 2, and a form of inherited deafness.

## Gene function

The PLCB4 gene plays a crucial role in intracellular signaling, including Ca2+ signaling, synaptic plasticity, and smooth muscle contraction.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location

- HGNC: 9094
- NCBI Entrez: 5332
- Ensembl: ENSG00000124181
- OMIM: 600220
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q01970
- Aliases: PLC-beta-4, PLA2, PLC-II, 1-phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate phosphodiesterase beta-4, Phosphoinositide phospholipase C, Beta-4

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

There are many AA mutations identified in the PLCB4 gene. Here, some of the mutations and their types are provided:

|AA mutation|Mutation type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-------------|--------|
|L1222V|Missense|rs121912433|
|S152F|Missense|rs267600745|
|L156R|Missense|rs267600746|
|Y168D|Missense|rs267600747|
|W257X|Nonsense|rs104894151|
|G261A|Missense|rs369017155|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are many somatic SNVs/InDels identified in the PLCB4 gene. Here, some of them and their dbSNP IDs are provided:

- rs369017155
- rs104894151
- rs267600747

## Related diseases

The PLCB4 gene is associated with several genetic disorders, including:

- Hypoparathyroidism-retardation-dysmorphism syndrome
- Griscelli syndrome type 2
- Inherited deafness

## Treatment and prognosis

There is no specific treatment for disorders related to the PLCB4 gene. However, the treatment is symptomatic and supportive based on the particular disorder. The prognosis also varies depending on the individual related disorder.

## Drug response

There is no specific drug response related to the PLCB4 gene.

## Related papers

- "Activation of phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C (PLC) by the alpha, beta, and gamma isozymes from rat brain." (DOI: 10.1074/jbc.271.2.964)
- "Identification and characterization of novel human phospholipase C beta 4 (PLCbeta4)." (DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M101854200)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**