---
title: "CYP2A7P1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene CYP2A7P1"
tags: ['CYP2A7P1', 'Pseudogene', 'DrugMetabolism', 'NoPathology', 'NoDisease', 'NoTreatment', 'NoDrugResponse', 'GeneticLocation']
---

## Gene CYP2A7P1

### Genetic Position
The CYP2A7P1 gene is located on the chromosome 19q13.2.

### Pathology
There are currently no known pathologies associated with the CYP2A7P1 gene.

### Function
CYP2A7P1 is a pseudogene that is thought to have a similar function to the nearby CYP2A6 gene. CYP2A6 is involved in the metabolism of several drugs, including coumarin, nicotine, and some anti-cancer drugs. Therefore, it is possible that CYP2A7P1 may also be involved in drug metabolism.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 25808
- NCBI Entrez: 64671
- Ensembl: ENSG00000221831
- OMIM: None
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: None
- Aliases: CYP2A7, CYPIIA7, CYP2A

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID
There are no documented amino acid mutations associated with the CYP2A7P1 gene.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no documented somatic SNVs/InDels associated with the CYP2A7P1 gene.

### Related Disease
There are currently no known diseases associated with the CYP2A7P1 gene.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There are no treatment or prognosis recommendations related to the CYP2A7P1 gene.

### Drug Response
There are no known drug responses related to the CYP2A7P1 gene.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Metabolism of coumarin by cDNA-expressed human cytochrome P450s: identification of P4502A6 as the principal coumarin 7-hydroxylase, P4501A2 as a coumarin 3,4-epoxidase, and P4502E1 as a minor participant in the metabolism of coumarin in human liver microsomes
- Author: Shimada, Takashi, et al.
- DOI: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.1980

- Subject: Genetic polymorphisms and tissue expression of cytochromes P450 CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4 in South Indian population
- Author: Ranganathan, Priya, et al.
- DOI: 10.4103/0971-6866.220044

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**