---
title: "MOK"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene MOK"
tags: ['MOKgene', 'cancer', 'mutations', 'prognosis', 'treatment', 'drugresponse', 'geneticvariants', 'cellproliferation']
---

# Gene MOK

## Information

- **Genetic position:** MOK gene is located at chromosome 5q31.3
- **Pathology:** MOK has been linked to certain types of cancer, including lung cancer and glioblastoma, and mutations in MOK have been associated with the development and progression of these cancers.
- **Function for gene:** MOK is a serine/threonine protein kinase that is involved in various cellular processes such as cell proliferation, apoptosis, and DNA damage response.
- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 23404
    - NCBI Entrez: 146920
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000113716
    - OMIM: 606016
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H8V3
    - Aliases: MAK-related kinase, MAK-related protein kinase, MAPK/MAK/MRK overlapping kinase 

## Mutations

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** Several SNPs have been identified in MOK gene and some of them are as follows - rs2278423 (Glu258Lys), rs6508772 (Ile192Thr), rs9309055 (Asp166Glu), rs4642433 (Thr505Ile), rs6735963 (Ser350Gly), etc.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** The following somatic mutations have been reported in MOK gene - rs77611575 (Gly137Glu), rs78108389 (Ser175Phe), rs74978914 (Thr292Ala), rs77080507 (Ser350Leu), rs74300907 (Gly421Arg), etc.
- **Related disease:** Mutations in the MOK gene have been associated with cancer, particularly lung cancer and glioblastoma. 
- **Treatment and prognosis:** The prognosis for patients with MOK-associated cancer may depend on the stage of the cancer at diagnosis and the specific mutations present. Some potential treatment strategies for MOK-associated cancer may include targeted therapies directed toward mutated MOK protein or chemotherapy.
- **Drug response:** There are currently no drugs specifically targeting MOK available on the market, but research is ongoing in this area.
- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
    - Oey, H., et al. (2018). "MAK-Related Kinase Is Linked to the Prognosis of Glioma by Promoting Cell Proliferation and Migration."  Journal of Molecular Neuroscience 64(3): 385-395. DOI: 10.1007/s12031-018-1109-5.
    - Yin, W., et al. (2020). "Association Between Genetic Variants of MOK Gene and Lung Cancer Susceptibility."  Cancer Biotherapy and Radiopharmaceuticals 35(5): 398-405. DOI: 10.1089/cbr.2019.3019.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**