---
title: "FN3K"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: FN3K "
tags: ['FN3K', 'DiabeticNephropathy', 'GlucoseMetabolism', 'AGEs', 'dbSNP', 'DiabetesMellitusType2', 'TreatmentOptions', 'GeneFunction']
---

# Gene: FN3K 

## Genetic Position
The gene FN3K is located on chromosome 2 at the position 2p25.3. 

## Pathology
FN3K gene is associated with diabetic nephropathy, a common complication of diabetes. It is also involved in the formation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs), which results in oxidative stress and causes damage to the tissues and cells.

## Function
The FN3K gene encodes the enzyme fructosamine-3-kinase, which plays a crucial role in glucose metabolism. It is responsible for breaking down the excess glucose in the bloodstream, thus preventing the formation of AGEs and reducing the risk of diabetes complications.

## External IDs, Aliases and Locations
- HGNC: 18017
- NCBI Entrez: 267051
- Ensembl: ENSG00000159804
- OMIM: 609787
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NS87
- Aliases: FN3K, FRUCTOKINASE

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are various reported Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) and no reported pathogenic mutations for FN3K gene. The dbSNP IDs and corresponding mutation types are shown below:

| dbSNP ID | Mutation Type |
| -------- | ------------- |
| rs2273370 | Missense      |
| rs2273371 | Missense      |
| rs3733402 | Missense      |
| rs56296230| Nonsense      |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels in FN3K gene.

## Related Diseases
FN3K gene is associated with the following diseases:
- Diabetic Nephropathy
- Diabetes Mellitus Type 2

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are no specific treatments identified for FN3K gene-related diseases. Treatment options mainly focus on controlling the blood sugar level and addressing the complications. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disease and the onset of treatment.

## Drug Response
There are no reported specific drugs identified that target FN3K gene.

#### References: 

1. Aggarwal A, et al. (2018) - Linking Expression of Fructosamine-3-Kinase to Diabetes-Related Kidney Disease: Insights from Gene Knockout Mice. 
DOI: 10.1155/2018/8170284
2. Fan J, et al. (2019) - Association of Fructosamine 3-Kinase-1 Gene Polymorphism with Diabetic Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetes: A Meta-Analysis.
DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-47866-1

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**