---
title: "ITPR1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene ITPR1"
tags: ['ITPR1', 'SCA15', 'SCA29', 'CalciumSignaling', 'MissenseMutation', 'SpinocerebellarAtaxia', 'SymptomManagement', 'GeneticDisorders']
---

# Information on Gene ITPR1

### Genetic Position
ITPR1 (Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1) gene is located on chromosome 3 at position q26.1.

### Pathology
Mutations in the ITPR1 gene have been associated with spinocerebellar ataxia type 15 (SCA15) and spinocerebellar ataxia type 29 (SCA29).

### Function
ITPR1 is involved in intracellular calcium signaling pathways. It encodes a ligand-gated ion channel that mediates calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum into the cytoplasm.

### External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 6135
- NCBI Entrez: 3708
- Ensembl: ENSG00000126255
- OMIM: 147265
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q14643
- Aliases: SCA15, SCA16

ITPR1 is located on chromosome 3 at position q26.1.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg269Cys (rs104894115) is a missense mutation.
- p.Ile419Asn (rs367543223) is a missense mutation.
- p.Arg417His (rs1057518212) is a missense mutation.
- p.Glu1787Lys (rs886041263) is a missense mutation.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No significant somatic SNVs/InDels have been identified in the ITPR1 gene.

### Related Diseases
Mutations in the ITPR1 gene have been associated with the following diseases:
- Spinocerebellar ataxia type 15 (SCA15)
- Spinocerebellar ataxia type 29 (SCA29)

### Treatment and Prognosis
No cure or specific treatment exists for SCA15 and SCA29. Management of symptoms, such as physical therapy and speech therapy, can improve quality of life for affected individuals.

### Drug Response
No relevant information exists on drug response for individuals with SCA15 and SCA29.

### Related Papers
- **Subject:** Spinocerebellar ataxia type 15 and 16. 
- **Author:** Fogel BL, Perlman S.
- **DOI Link:** [10.1002/mds.26061](https://doi.org/10.1002/mds.26061))

- **Subject:** A Genetically Distinct Form of SCA29 Exists as a Complicated Spastic Ataxia 
- **Author:** Fogel, B. L., Satya-Murti, S., Cohen, B. H. & Silvers, D. S.
- **DOI Link:** [10.1002/ana.21047](https://doi.org/10.1002/ana.21047))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**