---
title: "AKR7A2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene AKR7A2"
tags: ['AKR7A2', 'Detoxification', 'Xenobiotics', 'HepatocellularCarcinoma', 'MissenseMutation', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticPredisposition', 'InnateImmunity']
---

## Gene AKR7A2
### Genomic Position
The AKR7A2 gene is located on the long (q) arm of chromosome 1 at position 33.3 (1q33.3).

### Function
AKR7A2 encodes an aldo-keto reductase that is involved in the detoxification of aldehydes and ketones. It also plays a role in the metabolism of xenobiotics.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 357
- NCBI Entrez: 57016
- Ensembl: ENSG00000143384
- OMIM: 606882
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NCN4

Aliases: AKR7L, A7-3, AFAR, AFLR, AKR7A3.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

|AA Change|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---------|-------------|--------|
|Phe25Leu|Missense|rs113994112|
|Gly133Cys|Missense|rs137852675|
|Arg260Trp|Missense|rs281875548|
|Ala205Thr|Missense|rs727502157|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are currently no known somatic SNVs/InDels associated with AKR7A2.

### Related Disease
AKR7A2 mutations have been associated with the development of hepatocellular carcinoma.

### Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis of AKR7A2-related hepatocellular carcinoma is not well established and further research is required.

### Drug Response
There is currently no information on drug response specific to AKR7A2 mutations.

### Related Papers
- Author: Liu X, Chen W, Feng J et al.
  - Title: AKR7A2 is a novel marker of cigarette smoke-induced toxicity in human bronchial epithelial cells.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.taap.2019.04.022

- Author: Miyamoto M, Takao Y, Nagahama M et al.
  - Title: Genetic predisposition to hepatocellular carcinoma caused by dysregulation of innate immunity.
  - DOI: 10.1111/cas.12434

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**