---
title: "FOXH1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: FOXH1"
tags: ['FOXH1', 'GeneFunction', 'BirthDefects', 'CleftLip', 'Palate', 'TranscriptionalActivator', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene Information: FOXH1

## Genetic Position
* Chromosome: 8 
* Location: 8q24.13
* Strand: plus strand

## Pathology
* Mutations in FOXH1 gene are found to be associated with some birth defects such as cleft lip/palate, diaphragmatic hernia, and congenital heart defects.

## Function 
* The FOXH1 gene encodes the forkhead box H1 protein. FOXH1 protein plays a critical role in the regulation of embryonic development and organogenesis. It functions as a transcriptional activator that binds to DNA and regulates gene expression.

## External IDs and Aliases
* HGNC ID: 3822
* NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 8928
* Ensembl ID: ENSG00000127022
* OMIM ID: 603621
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9H1Y1
* Aliases: FAST-1, FKHL13, Lit1, MPH1, SMAD-FAST, TGIF-related factor 3, and FREAC-5.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
* No disease mutations were found in AA level for FOXH1 gene.
  
## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
* The COSMIC database did not report any somatic mutations for FOXH1 gene.

## Related Disease
* Cleft Lip/Palate-Associated FOXH1 Variants: Several studies have identified rare variants of FOXH1 gene to be associated with non-syndromic cleft lip/palate. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
* The treatment options for birth defects associated with FOXH1 gene mutations depend on the specific condition. Treatment may involve surgical correction and management of symptoms such as breathing difficulties and feeding problems.
* The prognosis for children with FOXH1-associated birth defects varies depending on the severity and type of birth defect.

## Drug Response
* No drugs were found that target FOXH1 gene specifically.

## Related Papers
* Study on FOXH1 and cleft lip/palate: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/mgg3.693)
* FOXH1 and Diaphragmatic Hernia: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00104-020-01141-5)
* FOXH1 and Congenital Heart Defects: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2009.02.015)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**