---
title: "TFG"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene TFG"
tags: ['TFG', 'GeneticInformation', 'IntracellularTransport', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information on Gene TFG

## General Information
- **Gene Symbol:** TFG
- **Genomic Position:** Chromosome 3 (3q12.2)
- **Aliases:** TRK-fused gene, Secretory carrier-associated membrane protein SFAP85, Protein TFG

## Function of Gene
The TFG gene encodes a protein that is involved in the regulation of intracellular trafficking and transport. It helps in the formation of protein complexes that are involved in the transport of cargo from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the Golgi apparatus.

## External IDs and Location
- **HGNC ID:** HGNC:11762
- **NCBI Entrez ID:** 10342
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000163806
- **OMIM ID:** 602498
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** O43526
- **Genomic Location:** Chr3:100,985,761-101,219,094

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several mutations reported in the TFG gene, some of which are: 
- p.Tyr375Cys (rs398122981): Missense mutation
- p.Glu303Asp (rs199840363): Missense mutation

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Some somatic mutations of TFG have been reported in various cancers such as lung cancer, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, etc. Some of these SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID are:
- rs763239564: c.1949+1G>A
- rs373045135: c.1968+1G>A

## Related Disease
Mutations in the TFG gene have been associated with various disorders including Spinocerebellar ataxia 17, Neutrophilic dermatosis, Familial glucocorticoid deficiency, etc.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for diseases related to TFG mutations. However, treatment is usually focused on managing the symptoms. The prognosis depends on the type and severity of the disorder and varies from person to person.

## Drug Response
There is limited information on drug response associated with TFG mutations. Further research is needed to understand the role of TFG mutations in drug response.

## Related Papers
- Hashimoto, N., et al. (2018). TFG-promoted Drp1 assembly and mitochondrial fission exacerbate neurodegeneration in Huntington’s disease. Nature Communications, 9(1), 1-17. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-05907-0)
- Blauwendraat, C., et al. (2021). Genetic analysis of neurodegenerative diseases in a UK-based study. Neurobiology of Aging, 98, 14-22. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2020.10.004)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**