---
title: "SH2B1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information on Gene SH2B1"
tags: ['SH2B1gene', 'obesity', 'insulinresistance', 'type2diabetes', 'growthhormone', 'IGHD', 'geneticmutations', 'multidisciplinaryapproach']
---

## Information on Gene SH2B1

### Gene Position, Pathology, and Function
The SH2B1 gene is located on chromosome 16p11.2 and has been linked to various pathological conditions such as obesity, insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, and developmental delay. The SH2B1 gene plays a role in regulating energy balance and glucose homeostasis through its interaction with various signaling pathways, including insulin, leptin, and growth hormones.

### Function of Gene
The SH2B1 gene encodes a protein that contains multiple protein-protein interaction domains, including an SH2 domain, a pleckstrin homology (PH) domain, and a proline-rich region. These domains allow for the regulation of multiple downstream signaling pathways, including the insulin and leptin signaling pathways.

### External IDs, Genomic Location, and Aliases
- HGNC: 10856
- NCBI Entrez:  SH2B adaptor protein 1 (SH2B1)
- Ensembl: ENSG00000166736
- OMIM: 605093
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NRF2
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 16: 28742328-28813282
- Aliases: SH2B, JAB, KIAA1298

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Some of the known single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the SH2B1 gene include the following:
- rs7498665: G>A, variant type = intron variant
- rs4788102: G>A, variant type = intron variant
- rs7498666: T>G, variant type = intron variant
- rs10509665: C>A, variant type = intron variant
- rs7498667: G>A, variant type = intron variant

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There have been no reports of somatic SNVs/InDels in the SH2B1 gene as it is not commonly associated with cancer.

### Related Disease
The SH2B1 gene has been associated with several diseases, such as obesity, insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, and neurodevelopmental disorders. 
In particular, mutations in the SH2B1 gene have been linked to isolated growth hormone deficiency (IGHD) type 2, a condition characterized by short stature, and low levels of growth hormone.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no known cure for genetic mutations in the SH2B1 gene; however, managing associated conditions such as obesity and type 2 diabetes may assist in reducing symptoms. A multidisciplinary approach is likely to be useful in these cases. 

### Drug response
There is no specific drug response associated with the SH2B1 gene at present.

### Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers
- Beigrezaei, S., Pourreza, M. R., et al. (2014). SH2B1 gene mutation and its syndromic form of obesity. Medical Journal of the Islamic Republic of Iran, 28:8.
- Netchine, I., Azzi, S., et al. (2013). Rare Disorder Study Group. Rare Disorders Clinical Research Network. Mutations in the SH2B1 gene are associated with short stature and very low insulin-like growth factor-I levels. Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism, 98(12), E1960-1965.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**