---
title: "MIR106B"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on gene MIR106B"
tags: ['MIR106B', 'MicroRNAs', 'Disease', 'Regulation', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticPosition', 'Pathology']
---

# Information on gene MIR106B

**Genetic Position:** Chromosome 7 (7q22.1)

**Pathology:** Research has shown that the MIR106B gene and its miRNA products may play roles in various diseases such as cancer, neurodegenerative diseases and metabolic diseases.

**Function:** MIR106B, also known as miR-106b-25 cluster, encodes for three microRNAs; mir-106b, mir-93 and mir25. These miRNAs are involved in the regulation of various cellular processes, including cell proliferation, angiogenesis, and apoptosis.

**External IDs and Aliases:**
- HGNC: 31490
- NCBI Entrez: 407024
- Ensembl: ENSG00000231181
- OMIM: 610528
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: NA

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** There are no reported amino acid mutations for MIR106B as it encodes for non-coding miRNAs.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** There are no reported somatic SNVs or InDels for MIR106B.

**Related Disease:** MIR106B has been implicated in various diseases such as cancer (lung, pancreatic, breast, and gastric), Alzheimer's disease, and type 2 diabetes.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** The association between MIR106B and disease suggests it may serve as a potential therapeutic target. However, further research is necessary to determine its effectiveness in treatment and predict its prognosis.

**Drug Response:** There is no reported drug response for MIR106B.

**Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
- "miR-106b~25 cluster regulates multidrug resistance in an ABC transporters-independent manner in hepatocellular carcinoma" Zhang et al., 2010, PubMed: 20160518
- "MicroRNA miR-106b-25 cluster regulates EGFR-dependent angiogenesis in bladder cancer" Huang et al., 2013, PubMed: 23936889
- "MiR-106b-25 cluster targets β-2 microglobulin in dermal fibroblasts from psoriasis patients" Wang et al., 2020, PubMed: 31712752

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**