---
title: "FOXI3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information Analysis on FOXI3 Gene"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'FOXI3Gene', 'Deafness', 'MutationTypes', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'DrugTherapy', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Genetic Information Analysis on FOXI3 Gene

## Gene Information
- **Function:** The FOXI3 gene encodes a transcription factor involved in the development of sensory hair cells in the inner ear and skin.
- **External IDs:** HGNC:17611, NCBI Entrez Gene:55897, Ensembl:ENSG00000153022, OMIM:605481, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:Q9H334
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 1q32.3

## Variations
- **AA mutation list:** A list of AA mutations for FOXI3 gene can be found on UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot database.
- **Mutation type:** There are different mutation types present in FOXI3 gene, including missense, nonsense, frameshift, and splicing mutations.
- **dbSNP ID:** Single nucleotide variations (SNVs) and small insertions/deletions (InDels) for FOXI3 gene can be found in dbSNP database.

## Related Diseases
- Mutations in the FOXI3 gene have been linked to autosomal dominant and recessive deafness, which is an inherited condition characterized by progressive hearing loss.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is currently no cure for deafness caused by mutations in FOXI3 gene. Treatment options depend on the severity of the hearing loss and may include hearing aids, cochlear implants, or other assistive devices.
- The prognosis for individuals with FOXI3-related deafness depends on the extent of hearing loss and other factors such as age of onset.

## Drug Response
- There is no specific drug therapy available for treating deafness caused by mutations in FOXI3 gene.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Genetic analysis of FOXI3 in Chinese children with SNHL
- Author: Chen X, et al.
- DOI: 10.1186/s12920-018-0337-2

- Subject:Screening of novel candidate genes related to hereditary hearing loss in a Chinese rural population by whole exome sequencing
- Author: Tang Y, et al.
- DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2019-029767

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**