---
title: "SPG27"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SPG27"
tags: ['SPG27', 'HereditarySpasticParaplegia', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorder', 'Autophagy', 'MissenseMutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'ZFYVE26']
---

# Information about Gene SPG27

## Genetic Position
The SPG27 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 10 (10q22.1).

## Pathology
Mutations in the SPG27 gene have been associated with a rare form of hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP), which is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive stiffness and contraction in the lower limbs.

## Function
The SPG27 gene encodes a protein called ZFYVE26, which is involved in the regulation of autophagy, which is the process of breaking down and recycling cellular components.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Locations
- HGNC ID: 26567
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 57480
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000107980
- OMIM ID: 609041
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9NV96
- Aliases: KIAA0831, SPG27, ZFYVE26

## AA Mutation List and Types with dbSNP ID
- p.Ala535Val (rs137852625): missense mutation
- p.His623Arg (rs267606721): missense mutation
- p.His678Arg (rs766916215): missense mutation

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic mutations in the SPG27 gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the SPG27 gene have been linked to hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP), which is a rare neurological disorder characterized by progressive muscle stiffness and spasticity in the lower limbs.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for HSP, and treatment is generally aimed at managing symptoms. Physical therapy and medication can help alleviate some of the symptoms associated with the disease. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disease.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug that can cure or significantly slow the progression of HSP. However, medications such as muscle relaxants and antidepressants can help alleviate symptoms.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Autosomal-recessive spastic paraplegia-2 with optic atrophy and neuropathy type 1
  - Author: C. Coutinho P, S. Ruano L, et al.
  - PMID: [15929041]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15929041))
- Subject: ZFYVE26/SPG15 mutation in autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia type 15 impairs binding to cardiolipin
  - Author: Prasad R, Hadano S, et al.
  - DOI: [10.1186/1471-2202-12-71]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2202-12-71))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**