---
title: "RP1L1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information About Gene RP1L1"
tags: ['RP1L1', 'RetinalDisorders', 'PhotoreceptorCells', 'GeneMutation', 'GeneTherapy', 'LowVisionAids', 'DrugResponse', 'ExomeSequencing']
---

# Information About Gene RP1L1

## Gene Position and Aliases
- Gene: RP1L1
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 8
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 26426
    - NCBI Entrez: 144720
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000173310
    - OMIM: 610937
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5T2W1
- Aliases: 
    - C20orf75
    - DKFZp781P15154
    - RP1-like 1

## Function of RP1L1 Gene
The RP1L1 gene encodes for a protein that is involved in the development and maintenance of photoreceptor cells in the retina. Specifically, it is a component of the connecting cilium of photoreceptor cells, which plays a role in the transport of proteins and other materials between the cell body and the outer segment of the photoreceptor. 

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Thr628Met (rs150516714)
- p.Val1318Ile (rs7523833)
- p.Gly1929Glu (rs57742297)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic variants for RP1L1 gene with dbSNP ID as of August 2021.

## Related Diseases
Mutations or variations in the RP1L1 gene are associated with various retinal disorders, including retinitis pigmentosa, cone-rod dystrophy, and Leber congenital amaurosis.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no known cure for retinal disorders caused by RP1L1 gene mutations. Treatment generally focuses on managing the symptoms and preventing further vision loss. This can include the use of low-vision aids, such as magnifying glasses or electronic devices, as well as gene therapy in some cases.

## Drug Response
There is currently no information available on drug responses specific to mutations in the RP1L1 gene.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Whole exome sequencing identifies a homozygous nonsense mutation in RP1L1 causing cone-rod dystrophy with supernormal rod function (CRD-SRF) in a Sri Lankan family
- Author: Wickremasinghe et al.
- DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0211417

- Subject: Exome Sequencing Identifies a Missense Variant in EFEMP1 Co-Segregating in a Family with Autosomal Dominant Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma
- Author: Cooke Bailey et al.
- DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0089861

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**