---
title: "ITIH6"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for ITIH6"
tags: ['ITIH6', 'InterAlphaTrypsinInhibitor', 'ExtracellularMatrix', 'Biosynthesis', 'Glycoprotein', 'ChromosomalLocalization', 'MildCognitiveImpairment', 'Elderly']
---

# Gene Information for ITIH6

## Genetic Position and Pathology
- Gene: ITIH6 (Inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain family member 6)
- Chromosome: 10
- Genetic Location: 10p15.1
- Pathology: Not applicable

## Function
- ITIH6 is a member of the inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor (ITI) family, which plays a major role in maintaining the integrity of extracellular matrix and preventing inflammation. ITIH6 is involved in the biosynthesis of the glycoprotein plasma ITI and its subsequent incorporation into extracellular matrices.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: HGNC:16311
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 83643
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000179451
- OMIM ID: 612452
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9BYE8
- Aliases: GAMBIT1, H3P15, IHRP

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No protein coding and non-coding variants have been reported for ITIH6.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for ITIH6.

## Related Disease
- No disease has been directly associated with ITIH6 gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Not applicable as there is no related disease connected to ITIH6.

## Drug Response
- Not applicable as there is no related disease connected to ITIH6.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Gene structure and chromosomal localization of the human inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor family heavy chain (ITIH) genes and evidence for a novel cluster of ITIH genes
  - Author: Gagnon J, Routhier S, Bissonnette F, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1006/geno.2000.6510
- Subject: Analysis of inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain 6 (ITIH6) and its association with mild cognitive impairment in elderly Chinese individuals
  - Author: Zhang Y, Li W, Liang Y, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2016.10.046

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**