---
title: "CBL"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: CBL"
tags: ['CBLgene', 'cancer', 'ubiquitinligase', 'cellsignaling', 'mutations', 'leukemia', 'treatment', 'drugresponse']
---

## Gene: CBL

### Genetic Position:
CBL is located on the short arm of chromosome 11 (11p11.2).

### Pathology:
Mutations in the CBL gene have been associated with several types of cancer, including leukemia and solid tumors.

### Function:
CBL codes for a protein that acts as an E3 ubiquitin ligase, which is involved in controlling cell signaling and protein degradation. Specifically, it is involved in the downregulation of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) and T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling. 

### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC ID: HGNC:1500 
- NCBI Entrez ID: 867
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000165879
- OMIM ID: 165360
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P22681
- Aliases: C-CBL, CblProto-Oncogene

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- p.Gln249ProfsTer54 (frameshift mutation) with dbSNP ID rs398122014
- p.Tyr371Cys (missense mutation) with dbSNP ID rs74315450
- p.Tyr371His (missense mutation) with dbSNP ID rs74315450

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- c.2015_2020delinsACGTT (missense mutation) with dbSNP ID rs772044141

### Related Disease:
- Noonan syndrome-like disorder with or without juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia
- Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia
- Acute myeloid leukemia
- Lung adenocarcinoma
- Breast cancer
- Colorectal cancer
- Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia

### Treatment and Prognosis:
Targeting the CBL gene may prove useful for the treatment of certain types of cancer. However, more research is needed to determine the efficacy of this approach.

### Drug Response:
There is currently no approved drug targeting the CBL gene.

### References:
- Loh ML. (2017). "How I treat juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia". Blood 130(2):126-136. doi: 10.1182/blood-2016-12-724913
- Chan RJ. (2014). "Development of small-molecule targeting the ubiquitin ligase Cbl-b for cancer therapy". Recent Pat Anticancer Drug Discov. 9(2):148-59. PMID: 24524598

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**