---
title: "ACO2"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ACO2 Information"
tags: ['GeneACO2', 'MitochondrialAconitase', 'IronHomeostasis', 'HumanDiseases', 'SNVs', 'InDels', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene ACO2 Information

## Genetic Position 

Gene ACO2 is located on chromosome 22q13.2 and spans approximately 23.98 kilobases.

## Pathology 

Multiple studies have suggested that ACO2 may play a role in the development of various human diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and various types of cancer.

## Function 

ACO2 encodes the mitochondrial aconitase enzyme, which catalyzes the conversion of citrate to isocitrate in the tricarboxylic acid cycle. This enzyme also plays a role in iron sulfur cluster biogenesis and has been shown to be involved in iron homeostasis.

## External IDs 

- HGNC: 126
- NCBI Entrez: 50
- Ensembl: ENSG00000100292
- OMIM: 100850
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q99798

## AA Mutation List 

Some common amino acid mutations in ACO2 include:

- V275I (rs1491942)
- T1155I (rs12806938)
- P179H (rs138619565)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels 

Some somatic SNVs/InDels in ACO2 include:

- c.1814A>G (rs145348856)
- c.1766G>A (rs587783677)

## Related Disease 

ACO2 has been associated with various human diseases including:

- Alzheimer's Disease
- Parkinson's Disease
- Breast Cancer
- Lung Cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis 

Due to the complex role of ACO2 in various human diseases, there is no clear treatment or prognosis related to this gene.

## Drug Response 

Similarly, there is no known specific drug response related to ACO2 at this time.

## References 

- Mitochondrial Aconitase and Iron-Sulfur Protein Biogenesis Regulate Alternative Oxidase Function in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1128/MCB.00460-16))
- Aconitase 2, mitochondrial - Genetics Home Reference. ([Click](https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/ACO2#locations))
- The Human Protein Atlas - ACO2. ([Click](https://www.proteinatlas.org/ENSG00000100292-ACO2/pathology))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**