---
title: "NEBL"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene NEBL"
tags: ['NEBL', 'CardiacDiseases', 'ActinCytoskeleton', 'GeneMutations', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticInformation', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Information about Gene NEBL


## Genetic Position
The gene NEBL is located on the chromosome 10q24.32.

## Pathology
Mutations or variations in the NEBL gene have been implicated in several cardiac diseases, including dilated cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and restrictive cardiomyopathy.

## Function
NEBL encodes a protein called nebulin-related protein that is involved in the regulation of actin cytoskeleton organization in cardiac muscle cells.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 17715
- NCBI Entrez: 10519
- Ensembl: ENSG00000165811
- OMIM: 604834
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60246

Aliases: CYRZ, FLJ34465

## AA Mutation List
The following are some of the amino acid mutations reported in the NEBL gene along with the mutation types and dbSNP IDs:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-------------|--------|
|p.Leu533Pro|Missense|rs267607124|
|p.Asp418Asn|Missense|rs137854275|
|p.Thr312Met|Missense|rs755768804|
|p.Asn623Ser|Missense|rs672601760|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
Currently, there is no information available on somatic SNVs/InDels in the NEBL gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the NEBL gene have been associated with several cardiac diseases, including dilated cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and restrictive cardiomyopathy.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment options and prognosis for patients with NEBL gene mutations depend on the specific cardiac disease they have. In general, treatment may include medication, lifestyle changes, and surgery in severe cases.

## Drug Response
Currently, there is no information available on drug response related to NEBL gene mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Variants of the NEBL gene are associated with a higher risk of dilated cardiomyopathy in a Chinese population
  - Author: Li N, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1186/s12881-020-01069-7
  
- Subject: Allelic imbalance and expression of nebulin-related-anchoring protein (NRAP) gene in dilated cardiomyopathy
  - Author: Karibe A, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s00395-007-0656-0
  
- Subject: Polymorphisms in the nebulin gene (NEB) are associated with susceptibility to the development of dilated cardiomyopathy in a han chinese population
  - Author: Song Z, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2013.02.006

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**