---
title: "TROAP"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: TROAP"
tags: ['TROAP', 'Cancer', 'Microtubules', 'BreastCancer', 'HepatocellularCarcinoma', 'PancreaticCancer', 'Biomarker', 'MetaAnalysis']
---

## Gene: TROAP

### Genetic Position
- TROAP gene is located on chromosome 1 at the position 1p36.33.

### Pathology
- TROAP gene abnormalities are implicated in various cancer types.
- Decreased TROAP expression is associated with the progression of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.
- TROAP overexpression is found in hepatocellular carcinoma and breast cancer.

### Function 
- TROAP stands for "trophinin-associated protein", which is involved in embryo implantation in the uterus during early pregnancy.
- TROAP also promotes the assembly and stability of microtubules within cilia and flagella.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 20785
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 55508
- Ensembl: ENSG00000142581
- OMIM: 609262
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8TB45
- Aliases: PRICKLE4, RP11-215K24.6

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No disease-causing missense variants or indels affecting the TROAP gene have been reported.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Somatic mutations of TROAP have been reported in various cancers.
- The dbSNP database reports various SNVs in the TROAP gene, but their clinical significance is currently unknown.

### Related Disease
- Breast cancer
- Hepatocellular carcinoma
- Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Potential treatments for TROAP-associated cancers are still under investigation.

### Drug Response
- No information available about drug response

### Related Papers
- "TROAP as a biomarker for breast cancer: A systematic review and meta-analysis" by Li et al. (2020). DOI: 10.1111/tbj.13641 
- "DOWN-REGULATION OF TROAP INVASIVENESS OF PANCREATIC DUCTAL ADENOCARCINOMA CELLS VIA SUPPRESSION OF MMP2 EXPRESSION IN VITRO AND IN VIVO" by Lin et al. (2017). DOI: 10.3892/or.2017.5534

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**