---
title: "DCAF12L2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about DCAF12L2 gene"
tags: ['DCAF12L2', 'WDRepeatContainingProtein68', 'mRNAProcessing', 'CDK11Regulation', 'MissenseMutation', 'MaleInfertility', 'TouretteSyndrome', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

# Information about DCAF12L2 gene

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function

- **Genetic Position**: chromosome 6p21.33 (Viewed in Ensembl)
- **Pathology**: No disease association has been reported in this gene so far.
- **Function**: The DCAF12L2 (also known as WDR68) gene encodes a protein called WD repeat-containing protein 68. This protein is involved in the regulation of mRNA processing and splicing events within the nucleus of cells. It is also involved in the regulation of the cyclin-dependent kinase CDK11 by forming a complex with it and enhancing its activity.

## External IDs, Genomic Location, Aliases
- **External IDs:** 
     - HGNC: 28865
     - NCBI Entrez: 79890
     - Ensembl: ENSG00000164149
     - OMIM: -
     - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H6Z4
     
- **Genomic Location:** chr6:30326789-30345924 (GRCh38.p7) 
     
- **Aliases:** WDR68, FLJ14213

## AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID

- There are a few non-synonymous Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) found in the DCAF12L2 gene. 

     | AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
     | ----------- | ------------ | -------- |
     | L16P | Missense | rs35056758 |
     
     
## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported in this gene so far.

## Related disease

- No disease association has been reported in this gene so far.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- Since no disease association has been reported in this gene, there is no available treatment or prognosis related to it.

## Drug Response

- There is no available information on drug response and this gene yet.

## Related papers

- Subject: Investigation of the association between DCAF12L2 gene polymorphisms and male infertility in the Chinese population.
    - Author: He, J. et al.
    - DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-018-26677-7)
- Subject: CINP is disrupted by a novel, English, familial Tourette syndrome-associated stop mutation [CINP:MIM615202].
    - Author: Cooper, G.M. et al.
    - DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0002-9297(07)63810-X)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**