---
title: "HGD"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: HGD"
tags: ['HGD', 'Alkaptonuria', 'Enzyme', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Nitisinone', 'MetabolicDisorder', 'HomogentisicAcid']
---

## Gene: HGD

### Genetic Position:
The HGD gene is located on chromosome 3 at the position 3q13.33.

### Pathology:
Mutations in the HGD gene are known to cause Alkaptonuria, which is a rare metabolic disorder. Alkaptonuria results from accumulation of homogentisic acid due to deficiency of HGD enzyme.

### Function:
The HGD gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called homogentisate 1,2 dioxygenase (HGD). This enzyme is involved in the breakdown of an amino acid called phenylalanine, which is obtained from the diet and through protein breakdown. The HGD enzyme helps to convert homogentisate to 4-maleylacetoacetate during the pathway of tyrosine metabolism.

### External IDs:
- HGNC ID: 4912
- NCBI Entrez ID: 3081
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000170961
- OMIM ID: 607474
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P32754

### Aliases:
- Homogentisate 1,2-dioxygenase
- Homogentisic acid oxidase
- HGO

### AA Mutation List:
- p.Gly151Arg / rs61752602
- p.Gly215Arg / rs147768083

### Mutation type and dbSNP ID:
- Missense mutation / rs61752602
- Missense mutation / rs147768083

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There are no somatic SNVs/InDels reported in the HGD gene.

### Related Disease:
- Alkaptonuria

### Treatment and prognosis:
There is no definitive cure for Alkaptonuria. The treatment mainly focuses on symptom management. Early diagnosis and intervention may help to prevent or delay complications.

### Drug response:
There is no FDA-approved drug specifically for Alkaptonuria. The use of nitisinone, an FDA-approved drug for another metabolic disorder, has shown some potential in reducing the level of homogentisic acid in patients with Alkaptonuria.

### Related Papers:
- Author: Phornphutkul C, Introne WJ, Perry MB, Bernardini I, Murphey MD, Fitzpatrick DL, Fairbairn L, et al.
  - Title: Natural history of alkaptonuria.
  - Journal: New England Journal of Medicine.
  - DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199811053391905
- Author: Zatkova A, Sedlackova T, Radvansky J, Polakova H, Nemethova M, Aquaron R, Sarafoglou K, et al.
  - Title: Identification of 11 novel homogentisate 1,2 dioxygenase variants in alkaptonuria patients and establishment of a novel LOVD-based HGD mutation database.
  - Journal: Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s10545-011-9373-0

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**