---
title: "TSHR"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information: TSHR"
tags: ['TSHR', 'ThyroidDiseases', 'ThyroidStimulatingHormone', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'GravesDisease', 'Hyperthyroidism', 'Hypothyroidism']
---

## Gene Information: TSHR

### 1. Pathology, Function, and General Information
- **Pathology**: TSHR (Thyroid stimulating hormone receptor) gene is located on chromosome 14q31 and encodes a protein that plays a crucial role in the normal function of the thyroid gland. Mutations in TSHR gene can cause various thyroid diseases, including Graves' disease, hypothyroidism, and hyperthyroidism. 
- **Function**: The thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor (TSHR) mediates the actions of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) on the thyroid gland. TSH binds to TSHR, activating a cascade of signaling pathways that stimulate thyroid hormone synthesis and secretion, which is essential for normal metabolism. 
- **External IDs**: 
    - Gene ID: 7253
    - Genomic Location: Chr14: 78,739,176-78,844,625
    - Aliases: LGR3, CHNG1, hTSHR
    - HGNC: 12303
    - NCBI Entrez: 7253 
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000168484 
    - OMIM: 603372 
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P16473
### 2. Genetic Variants Information
- **AA Mutation List**: 
    - *p.Ala623Thrfs*Ter7 
    - *p.Leu629Ser*
    - *p.Ile568Thr*
    - *p.Ile568Asn*
- **Mutation Type**: Missense and frameshift mutations
- **dbSNP ID**: rs766840533, rs121908697, rs137853444, rs104893958 

### 3. Somatic SNVs/InDels
- No somatic SNVs or InDels are reported for TSHR in COSMIC (Catalogue Of Somatic Mutations In Cancer) and ClinVar databases.

### 4. Related Diseases
- Mutations in TSHR gene are associated with the following diseases:
    - Graves' disease 
    - Hypothyroidism 
    - Hyperthyroidism 
    - Thyroiditis 
    
### 5. Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment for TSHR-related thyroid diseases primarily depends on the clinical presentations, and it includes medications, surgery, and radioiodine therapy.
- Prognosis varies significantly depending on the type and severity of the disease.

### 6. Drug Response
- Drugs targeting TSH and TSHR are primarily used to treat hyperthyroidism and Graves' disease, including:
    - Antithyroid drugs (e.g., methimazole, propylthiouracil) 
    - Beta-blockers (e.g., propranolol) 
- However, these drugs have limited efficacy and can cause adverse effects.

### 7. Related Papers
- Philip Marshall, "Graves' Ophthalmopathy: A Diagnostic Dilemma" (DOI: 10.1210/jc.2002-021858)
- Zhaohui Fang et al., "Study of TSHR gene polymorphism and the association with Graves’ disease" (DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2017.11.004)
- Jiminez-Acosta et al., "Germline genetic variation rs965513 predisposes to autoimmune thyroid disease development in Graves’ disease and Hashimoto’s thyroiditis" (DOI:10.1093/eje/jvab155)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**