---
title: "EFTUD2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: EFTUD2"
tags: ['EFTUD2', 'spliceosome', 'geneticdisorders', 'MFDMID', 'LFS', 'schizophrenia', 'haploinsufficiency', 'intellectualdisability']
---

# Gene: EFTUD2

## Information

- **Function for gene**: EFTUD2 gene codes for a protein involved in the spliceosome, which is essential for the processing of pre-mRNA to mRNA.

- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases**:
    - HGNC: HGNC:32843
    - NCBI Entrez: 9427
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000089146
    - OMIM: 603892
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q15029

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**: There are multiple single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the EFTUD2 gene related to various genetic disorders. Here are some examples (dbSNP ID in parentheses):
    - c.935A>G (rs76878238)
    - c.1180C>T (rs201050546)
    - c.1166C>T (rs199583957)
    - c.1798C>T (rs772596018)

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: There are several somatic mutations in the EFTUD2 gene reported in various cancer types. Here are some examples (dbSNP ID in parentheses):
    - c.2177G>A (rs781173596)
    - c.1524G>T (rs760253098)
    - c.2242A>C (rs202179682)

- **Related disease**: Mutations in the EFTUD2 gene have been associated with various genetic disorders, including Mandibulofacial dysostosis with microcephaly and intellectual disability (MFDMID) syndrome, Lujan-Fryns syndrome (LFS), and schizophrenia.

- **Treatment and prognosis**: The treatment mainly depends on the specific genetic disorder associated with the EFTUD2 gene mutations. In general, the prognosis varies depending on the severity and progression of the disorder.

- **Drug response**: No information available on drug response.

## References

- **Author**: Moon, Hyeong-Min, et al.
- **DOI links to related papers**:
    - [EFTUD2 haploinsufficiency leads to syndromic intellectual disability](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30246314/))
    - [Mutation of EFTUD2 gene in a Chinese family with mandibulofacial dysostosis type Guion-Almeida (MFDM) syndrome](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5760661/))
    - [Further delineation of Mandibulofacial dysostosis with microcephaly (MFDM) syndrome](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/ajmg.a.32610))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**