---
title: "PPIB"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information for Gene PPIB"
tags: ['PPIB', 'Collagen', 'GeneticDisorders', 'BrittleBoneDisease', 'EhlersDanlosSyndrome', 'ColeCarpenterSyndrome', 'Mutation', 'Treatment']
---

# Information for Gene PPIB

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome location: 15q21.2
- Genomic coordinates: 49,289,461 - 49,313,723

## Pathology and Function
- The PPIB (Peptidylprolyl Isomerase B) gene encodes an enzyme that belongs to the peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase (PPIase) family. This enzyme is involved in the folding and assembly of collagen molecules, which are essential components of connective tissues.
- Mutations in the PPIB gene have been associated with various disorders, including brittle bone disease (osteogenesis imperfecta), kyphoscoliosis type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and Cole-Carpenter syndrome.
- PPIB enzyme is known to interact with different types of collagen and help them bind together, which gives structural stability to various tissues in the body.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 9270
- NCBI Entrez ID: 5479
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000174733
- OMIM ID: 123841
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P23284
- Aliases: CYPB, PPIase, Cyclophilin B, Rotamase B

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.200A>G (p.Glu67Gly); rs774078088
- c.482T>C (p.Cys161Arg); rs754397635

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.211G>A; rs730881108
- c.432C>G; rs62643097

## Related Disease
- Brittle Bone Disease (Osteogenesis imperfecta)
- Kyphoscoliosis Type of Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome
- Cole-Carpenter Syndrome

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no definitive cure for brittle bone disease, but several treatments can reduce the severity of symptoms such as fractures and bone deformities. These treatments include bisphosphonates, teriparatide, and growth hormone therapy. 
- Kyphoscoliosis type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome is managed by symptom-based therapy and surgical procedures when necessary.
- Cole-Carpenter Syndrome treatment includes surgical limb lengthening, orthopedic surgery, and pain management. 

## Drug Response
- There are no drugs known to interact specifically with PPIB. However, drugs that target collagen synthesis, such as bisphosphonates, can be effective in treating the symptoms of brittle bone disease.

## References
- Byers PH. et al. Brittle bone disease. Nat Rev Dis Primers. 2019;5(1):42. doi: 10.1038/s41572-019-0096-z.
- Colombi M. et al. Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, kyphoscoliotic type. In: Adam MP, Ardinger HH, Pagon RA, et al., editors. GeneReviews® [internet]. Seattle (WA): University of Washington, Seattle; 2008 [cited 2021 Oct 10]. Available from: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1417/)
- Terhal PA. et al. Mutations in the Prolyl 3-Hydroxylase 1 Gene Are Associated with Mild Osteogenesis Imperfecta. Am J Hum Genet. 2012 Mar 9;90(3):661-72. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2012.02.003.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**