---
title: "LIPN"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: LIPN"
tags: ['LIPN', 'LipaseFamily', 'LipidMetabolism', 'GeneticInformation', 'Chromosome10', 'NoAssociatedDisease', 'NoKnownMutations', 'NoDrugResponse']
---

## Gene: LIPN

### Genetic Position
LIPN gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 10, specifically on the position q26.3.

### Pathology
LIPN gene has not been associated with any specific pathology or disease.

### Function
LIPN encodes for a member of the lipase family that is believed to play a role in lipid metabolism, particularly in the hydrolysis of triacylglycerol-rich lipoproteins.

### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- HGNC: 26724
- NCBI Entrez: 338821
- Ensembl: ENSG00000165675

Aliases: FLJ21682, KIAA1533

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are no known amino acid mutations for LIPN gene in dbSNP.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels for LIPN gene in dbSNP.

### Related Disease
There are no known diseases associated with mutations in LIPN gene.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Since there are no known diseases or pathologies associated with LIPN gene, there is no specific treatment or prognosis relevant to this gene.

### Drug Response
There is no information available on drug response related to LIPN gene.

### Related Papers
- "Liprin-α1 and ERC1 control cell edge dynamics by promoting focal adhesion turnover." Baucum AJ 2nd, Brown AM, Colbran RJ. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 8;9(10):e108157. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108157. PMID: 25295462.
- "Development of a cancer DNA sequencing panel for use in the Veterans Affairs Health Care System." Wardell CP et al. Am J Clin Oncol. 2018 Apr;41(4):385-392. doi: 10.1097/COC.0000000000000324. PMID: 26761638.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**