---
title: "CDKAL1"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: CDKAL1"
tags: ['CDKAL1', 'Type2Diabetes', 'InsulinResistance', 'MetabolicDisorders', 'MissenseMutation', 'GeneticVariants', 'DiabetesManagement', 'GeneticResearch']
---

# Gene: CDKAL1

## Information
- **Genetic Position:** Chr6:104,482,087-104,518,430
- **Pathology:** CDKAL1 variants have been associated with type 2 diabetes and related traits.
- **Function for gene:** CDKAL1 gene encodes a kinase that phosphorylates threonyl and tyrosyl residues in its substrates. It is involved in the regulation of insulin secretion as well as glucose metabolism.
- **Aliases:** CDK5 regulatory subunit-associated protein 1-like 1, Cdk5rap1l1, HF.19, MGC116985.
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 25466
    - NCBI Entrez: 54904
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000137221
    - OMIM: 609761
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-prot: Q5VV42
    
## Mutations and Variants
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**
    - rs7756992: Arg457Gln (missense)
    - rs10946398: His402Gln (missense)
    - rs9356745: intron variant
    - rs7944584: intron variant
    - rs7163757: intron variant
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - No somatic mutations reported
- **Related Disease:** Variants in CDKAL1 have been linked with an increased risk for type 2 diabetes, impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, insulin resistance, and metabolic disorders.
- **Treatment and Prognosis:** Specific treatments targeting CDKAL1 variants are not currently available. Management of diabetes and related metabolic disorders typically involves glucose-lowering medications, lifestyle modifications, and routine monitoring to prevent complications.
- **Drug Response:** No known drug response associated with CDKAL1 variants.
- **Related Papers:**
    - Subject: "Genetics of CDKAL1 involved in the risk of type 2 diabetes: A Deep Dive"
    - Author: Tiwari HK, Tiffin N, James D, et al.
    - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diabet.2019.04.005)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**