---
title: "SNRPE"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SNRPE"
tags: ['GeneSNRPE', 'RNAprocessing', 'SpliceosomeComplex', 'MissenseMutations', 'Myeloma', 'Leukemia', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene SNRPE

## General Information
- **Function:** SNRPE gene encodes a protein component of the spliceosome complex, which plays a crucial role in RNA splicing and maturation.
- **Aliases:** small nuclear ribonucleoprotein E, SmE, U1 snRNP E, SNRPE1, SNRE, Snu4H
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 5: 174,847,076-174,869,201 (- strand)

## External IDs
- **HGNC:** 11175
- **NCBI Entrez Gene:** 6626
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000113520
- **OMIM:** 601674
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** P61204

## Mutations 
- **AA Mutation List:** The SNRPE gene is known to have several missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations. 
- **Mutation Type:** SNPs and small InDels (insertions and deletions)
- **dbSNP ID:** rs1393389, rs1801393, rs2232812

## Related Diseases
- Plasma cell myeloma
- Acute lymphoblastic leukemia

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no specific treatment available for SNRPE-related diseases. Treatment is generally focused on managing the symptoms of the disease.
- The prognosis for SNRPE-related diseases varies depending on the specific disorder, disease stage, and individual factors like age, overall health, and medical history.

## Drug Response
- There is no known drug response information available for SNRPE-related diseases.

## References
- Raymer B, Smith PJ, Stamatoyannopoulos G, Larson A, Ingersoll R. "Nucleotide sequence of a cDNA clone encoding the SmE protein of human U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particles and location of the corresponding gene on chromosome 5". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. 1986; 83(8):2454-2458. doi: 10.1073/pnas.83.8.2454
- "SNRPE small nuclear ribonucleoprotein E1 [Homo sapiens (human)]". NCBI Protein Database. Accessed August 16, 2021. [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/protein/P61204.)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**