---
title: "DNAAF1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['DNAAF1', 'PrimaryCiliaryDyskinesia', 'SitusInversusTotalis', 'MissenseMutations', 'NonsenseMutation', 'GeneticDisorders', 'RespiratoryInfections', 'SupportiveTreatment']
---

## Gene Information

**Gene:** DNAAF1

**Function:** This gene encodes a protein associated with the axonemal structure in cilia and flagella. The function of this protein is not fully understood.

**External IDs and Aliases:**

- HGNC: 22030
- NCBI Entrez: 11262
- Ensembl: ENSG00000119783
- OMIM: 617091
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q86SL6

**Genomic Location:** Chromosome 13: 66,174,089-66,181,753

## Mutations and Variants

**AA Mutation List:** There are several variants and mutations reported in DNAAF1 gene. The following is a list of some of the reported mutations in DNAAF1 gene:

- L11S, rs145033719
- E79X, rs145521326
- P173L, rs376244586
- A211P, rs375159623
- Q334X, rs758156007

**Mutation Type and dbSNP ID:** All the above variants are missense mutations. However, the mutation Q334X is a nonsense mutation.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No somatic SNVs or InDels have been reported in DNAAF1 gene.

## Related Disease

Mutations in DNAAF1 gene have been associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) and situs inversus totalis (SIT). PCD is a rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by chronic respiratory infections and defects in motors that drive cilia. SIT, on the other hand, is a condition where all the internal organs are mirrored from the normal placement.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no curative treatment available for PCD as yet. Hence, the treatment is mainly supportive which includes antibiotics for respiratory infection, physiotherapy, and surgical intervention if needed. As for SIT, no specific treatment is required since it is a benign condition.

## Drug Response

There is no data available on drug response for DNAAF1 gene.

## References

- Horani et al., 2013. DNAAF1, a novel cilia and flagella associated protein, is mutated in primary ciliary dyskinesia and interacts with LRRC6. [PMID:23354438](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23354438/)
- Li et al., 2017. Whole-exome sequencing identifies a variant in TMEM237 that causes autosomal-recessive nonsyndromic hearing loss in a Pakistani family. [PMID:29178693](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29178693/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**