---
title: "GP1BB"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene GP1BB"
tags: ['GeneGP1BB', 'BernardSoulierSyndrome', 'PlateletDisorder', 'BloodClotting', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about gene GP1BB

## Genetic Position
The gene GP1BB (Glycoprotein Ib Platelet Subunit Beta) is located on chromosome 22q11.21.

## Pathology
Mutations in the GP1BB gene can cause Bernard-Soulier syndrome (BSS), a rare inherited bleeding disorder that affects the blood's ability to clot properly. BSS is characterized by easy bruising, nosebleeds, and prolonged bleeding after injury or surgery.

## Function
The GP1BB gene encodes a protein called glycoprotein Ib-beta. This protein is a subunit of the glycoprotein Ib-IX-V complex, which is expressed on the surface of platelets and is involved in platelet adhesion and aggregation in response to vascular injury.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 4456
- NCBI Entrez: 2812
- Ensembl: ENSG00000100368
- OMIM: 138720
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P13224
- Aliases: CD42c, GPIb-Beta

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.223C>T (p.Arg75Cys) - rs374055512
- c.1034G>A (p.Arg345His) - rs28933289
- c.953dupT (p.Leu319fs) - rs797044429
- c.885G>T (p.Glu295Ter) - rs797044430

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic mutations in the GP1BB gene.

## Related Disease
Bernard-Soulier syndrome is the main disease associated with mutations in the GP1BB gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for Bernard-Soulier syndrome, but the symptoms can be managed with treatment. Treatment options may include blood transfusions, medications to help the blood clot, and surgery to control bleeding.

## Drug Response
There is limited information available on the drug response of GP1BB mutations in Bernard-Soulier syndrome.

## Related papers
- Subject: Molecular basis of defective platelet function in patients with severe hypertension
  - Author: Dorsam RT, Kunapuli SP
  - DOI: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.108.169532
  
- Subject: Bernard-Soulier syndrome: an inherited platelet disorder
  - Author: Kunishima S, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1177/1076029619837101
  
- Subject: Inherited Platelet Disorders
  - Author: Gresele P, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1055/s-0039-3372522

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**