---
title: "ARL14EP"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene ARL14EP"
tags: ['ARL14EP', 'intracellulartrafficking', 'vesiculartransport', 'cancer', 'metastasis', 'geneticinformation', 'geneticposition', 'function']
---

## Gene ARL14EP
    
### Genetic Position
ARL14EP is located on the long arm of chromosome 3 (3q26.31).

### Pathology
Studies suggest that the overexpression of ARL14EP may play a role in promoting cancer cell growth and metastasis. 

### Function
ARL14EP encodes a protein that is involved in intracellular trafficking and vesicular transport. The exact function of ARL14EP is not fully understood, but it is thought to play a role in protein trafficking between the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC:26817
- NCBI Entrez:138694
- Ensembl:ENSG00000156556
- OMIM:612454
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HAA3

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
No AA mutation information for gene ARL14EP is available in dbSNP.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs or InDels information for gene ARL14EP is available in dbSNP.

### Related Disease
There is limited information on the potential role of ARL14EP in disease. However, some studies suggest that it may be overexpressed in certain types of cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment or prognosis information available for gene ARL14EP.

### Drug Response
No drug response information for gene ARL14EP is available in DrugBank or PharmGKB.

### Related Papers
- Subject: ARL14EP promotes the growth and metastasis of gastric cancer cells.
- Author: Li C, et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2018.08.032

- Subject: ARL14EP, a protein implicated in endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi trafficking, is involved in cancer cell migration.
- Author: Palacios F, et al.
- DOI: 10.1002/jcb.25964

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**