---
title: "MLLT3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: MLLT3"
tags: ['MLLT3', 'Leukemia', 'Chromatin', 'GeneExpression', 'Chemotherapy', 'ProstateCancer', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene: MLLT3

### Genetic Position
The MLLT3 gene is located on chromosome 9 at the position q21.31.

### Pathology
Pathologic alterations in MLLT3 gene have been associated with various cancers, including acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALL), acute myeloid leukemias (AML), and prostate cancer.

### Function
MLLT3 encodes a protein called Af9, which helps regulate gene expression by modifying chromatin structure. It is involved in transcriptional activation, elongation, and chromatin organization.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 7175
- NCBI Entrez: 8028
- Ensembl: ENSG00000107141
- OMIM: 602494
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O14686

Aliases include: AF9, ALL1 fused gene from chromosome 9q, ENL

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Mutations in MLLT3 gene can result in amino acid changes that may lead to dysfunctional protein. The following are some of the AA mutations and their respective mutation types with associated dbSNP ID:
- G15R Substitution (rs116519332)
- L169V Substitution (rs201410435)
- T531M Substitution (rs5030655)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
The following are some of the somatic SNPs/InDels in MLLT3 gene:
- rs35994012
- rs57701740
- rs761752125

### Related Disease
Pathogenic variations in MLLT3 gene have been linked to the development of leukemia, specifically acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALL) and acute myeloid leukemias (AML).

### Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for leukemia usually involves chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and stem cell transplantation. The prognosis depends on the type and stage of leukemia, as well as the age of the patient.

### Drug Response
There is limited information on the effect of drugs on MLLT3 gene, but a study showed that its overexpression may increase sensitivity to a certain chemotherapy drug.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Af9/Mllt3 male mice display abnormal anxiety-like behavior and corticolimbic dysfunction
   - Author: Maria E. Morello et al.
   - DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1013099108
- Subject: Targeting the MLL complex in castration-resistant prostate cancer
   - Author: John A. Pulikkan et al.
   - DOI: 10.1186/s13046-017-0598-5
- Subject: Upregulation of MLLT3 via STAT3-mediated SOCS3 inhibition promotes prostate cancer growth in vitro and in vivo
   - Author: Xue-Ru Wu et al.
   - DOI: 10.1038/s41417-018-0016-2

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**