---
title: "SNAI2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: SNAI2"
tags: ['SNAI2', 'TranscriptionalRepressor', 'EMT', 'Cancer', 'TargetedTherapy', 'Metastasis', 'DrugDevelopment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: SNAI2

## Information

### Genetic Position
The SNAI2 gene is located on chromosome 8 at 8q11.2.

### Pathology
SNAI2 has been implicated in various types of cancer such as breast, lung, ovarian, pancreatic, and colon cancer, where it plays a key role in the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), a biological process that is critical for tumor invasion and metastasis.

### Function
SNAI2 is a transcriptional repressor that binds to E-box motifs and regulates the expression of genes involved in cell differentiation, migration, and survival, including E-cadherin, a key molecule involved in cell-cell adhesion and maintenance of epithelial morphology.

### External IDs 
- HGNC: 11100
- NCBI Entrez: 6591
- Ensembl: ENSG00000133114
- OMIM: 602693
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O43623

### Aliases
- HSNAI2
- SLUG
- SNAIL2
- SNAIL family zinc finger 2

### AA Mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are several mutations reported in the SNAI2 gene, including missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations. Some of the reported mutations in the SNAI2 gene are:
- p.R30C (rs200457145)
- p.L82F (rs200541555)
- p.R144W (rs369476330)
- p.Q169X (rs267607784)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic variations reported in the SNAI2 gene, including SNVs and InDels. Some of the reported somatic variations in the SNAI2 gene are:
- c.838G>A (rs199761603)
- c.25C>T (rs201553102)
- c.226_227delAA (rs1064793831)
- c.308G>T (rs199593824)

### Related Disease
SNAI2 has been implicated in various types of cancer such as breast, lung, ovarian, pancreatic, and colon cancer, where it plays a key role in the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), a biological process that is critical for tumor invasion and metastasis.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There are no specific treatments for SNAI2 mutations, but several targeted therapies are being developed for various types of cancer where SNAI2 plays a key role in tumor progression. Prognosis depends on the type and stage of cancer.

### Drug Response
Since SNAI2 is involved in tumor progression and metastasis, several drugs are being developed to target SNAI2 and inhibit its function. Some of the drugs that are being developed to target SNAI2 include HDAC inhibitors, STAT3 inhibitors, and Wnt inhibitors.

### Related Papers
- Subject: The role of SNAI2 in regulating cancer cell plasticity
- Author: Peinado H, et al.
- DOI: 10.1038/sj.onc.1206939

- Subject: The function and regulation of SNAI2 in cancer metastasis
- Author: Gao Y, et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2021.114857

- Subject: Therapeutic strategies targeting SNAI2 for cancer therapy
- Author: Zhou B, et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2021.107921

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**