---
title: "DNMT3L"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: DNMT3L "
tags: ['DNMT3L', 'DNAmethylation', 'geneexpression', 'development', 'disease', 'mutations', 'treatment', 'prognosis']
---

## Gene: DNMT3L 

### Information:
- The DNMT3L gene is located on chromosome 21 (21q22.3) and is involved in DNA methylation.
- DNA methylation is a process where methyl groups are added to DNA molecules, which can affect gene expression and play a role in development and disease.
- DNMT3L is a non-catalytic protein that regulates the activity of another DNA methyltransferase, DNMT3A, which is involved in de novo methylation during development.

### Function: 
The primary function of the DNMT3L gene is to regulate DNA methylation by binding to and activating the DNMT3A enzyme. This enzyme is responsible for de novo DNA methylation during development.

### External IDs: 
- HGNC: 29435
- NCBI Entrez: 29947
- Ensembl: ENSG00000154690
- OMIM: 608147
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H9H8

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
- No known disease-related mutations have been reported for the DNMT3L gene.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- No known somatic mutations in the DNMT3L gene have been identified in cancer or other diseases.

### Related disease: 
- There are no known diseases directly linked to mutations in the DNMT3L gene, but alterations in DNA methylation patterns have been associated with various conditions such as cancer, neurodevelopmental disorders, and autoimmune diseases.

### Treatment and prognosis:
- As there are currently no known disease-related mutations in the DNMT3L gene, there are no specific treatments or prognoses associated with mutations in this gene.

### Drug response:
- As there are no known disease-related mutations in the DNMT3L gene, there is currently no information available on drug responses associated with this gene.

### Related papers:
- Subject: DNMT3L gene and DNA methylation regulation.
- Author: Okano M, Bell DW, Haber DA, Li E
- DOI Link: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10659857)

- Subject: DNMT3L gene knockout causes DNA methylation abnormalities.
- Author: Bourc'his D, Xu GL, Lin CS, Bollman B, Bestor TH
- DOI Link: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11751635)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**