---
title: "ITPKC"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: ITPKC"
tags: ['ITPKC', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'RelatedDisease', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: ITPKC

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 19
- Location: 19q13.2

## Pathology
ITPKC gene mutations have been associated with various immune-mediated diseases.

## Function
The ITPKC gene encodes for an enzyme called inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 3-kinase C, which regulates calcium signaling in lymphocytes and plays a role in T-cell development.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 6165
- NCBI Entrez: 80207
- Ensembl: ENSG00000104954
- OMIM: 610048
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BZL6

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- rs72556327: p.Leu353Phefs*21 (frameshift)
- rs72556328: p.Leu353Val (missense)
- rs72556326: p.Pro522Thr (missense)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported as of now.

## Related Disease
- Kawasaki disease
- Systemic lupus erythematosus
- Multiple sclerosis

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment available for ITPKC-related diseases. 

## Drug Response
The effectiveness of drugs used for the treatment of ITPKC-related diseases has not been studied extensively.

## Related papers and Author
- Kuo, H. C., Yang, Y. L., Chuang, J. H., & Huang, Y. H. (2020). Association of genetic variants of TNFSF4, TNFAIP3, and ITPKC with Kawasaki disease susceptibility. Pediatric Research, 87(5), 913–919. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41390-019-0666-6)
- Lu, Y., Li, X., Liu, Y., Ma, L., & Jin, Y. (2018). PTPN22, ITPKC, CLEC16A, IL2RA, SOCS1 and FOXP3 genes polymorphisms and susceptibility to autoimmune thyroid diseases: A case-control study. Gene, 642, 177-181. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gene.2017.11.003)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**