---
title: "SUOX"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Analysis of Gene SUOX"
tags: ['SUOX', 'SulfiteOxidase', 'MolybdenumCofactorDeficiency', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticAnalysis']
---

# Analysis of Gene SUOX

## Gene Information

- Function: The SUOX gene encodes the sulfite oxidase enzyme that is responsible for converting sulfite to sulfate in the body.

- External IDs:
    - HGNC ID: 11280
    - NCBI Gene ID: 6822
    - Ensembl ID: ENSG00000105967
    - OMIM ID: 606887
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q96IZ7

- Genomic Location: Chromosome 12: 109,470,032-109,517,557

- Aliases: Sulfite oxidase, SUOX1, SOX

## Mutations

- AA Mutation List:

| AA change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| p.A50T | Missense | rs1801030 |
| p.E315K | Missense | rs28933370 |
| p.Y524C | Missense | rs121909812 |
| p.L322P | Missense | rs121909813 |
| p.L322R | Missense | rs121909813 |
| p.Q142* | Nonsense | rs121909811 |

- Somatic SNVs/InDels:
There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels for SUOX gene.

## Related Diseases
Mutations in SUOX gene can lead to the development of various diseases such as:
- Molybdenum cofactor deficiency type A (OMIM #252150)
- Molybdenum cofactor deficiency type B (OMIM #252160)

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis of individuals with SUOX gene mutations depend on the type and severity of the specific disease they develop.

## Drug Response
There is currently no information available on drug response related to SUOX gene mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Spectrum of mutations and genotype-phenotype analysis in isolated sulfite oxidase deficiency patients reveals molybdenum cofactor-dependent and -independent molecular etiologies.
  - DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35628
  - Author: Reiss J., et al. (2011)
- Subject: Evaluation of patients with isolated sulfite oxidase deficiency due to mutations in the SUOX gene.
  - DOI: 10.1515/CCLM.2011.841
  - Author: Bianchi P., et al. (2011)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**