---
title: "TYROBP"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene TYROBP"
tags: ['TYROBP', 'ImmuneCellActivation', 'SignalTransduction', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'SomaticMutations', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about Gene TYROBP

TYROBP (Tyrosine kinase binding protein) is a gene located on the long arm of chromosome 19 (19q13.32). It plays a critical role in immune cell activation and is also known as DNAX-activating protein of 12 kDa (DAP12). Below is further information about gene TYROBP.

## Function for gene

TYROBP serves as an adapter protein for various activating and inhibitory receptors expressed on the surface of immune cells. It is involved in signal transduction and the regulation of multiple pathways, including natural killer (NK) cell-mediated cytotoxicity and macrophage-mediated phagocytosis and cytokine production.

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases

- HGNC: 12467
- NCBI Entrez: 7305
- Ensembl: ENSG00000104879
- OMIM: 604142
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O43914

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

There are several missense mutations reported in the TYROBP gene, and some of them are:

- C20F(rs34312269)
- C56Y(rs199767272)
- A78T(rs147794442)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are a few somatic mutations identified in the TYROBP gene, and some of them are:

- rs3732379
- rs1330653

## Related disease

The variants in the TYROBP gene are associated with various infectious and autoimmune diseases like Alzheimer's disease, asthma, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis, influenza, and HIV.

## Treatment and prognosis

Currently, there is no targeted therapy available for TYROBP-related diseases. However, the treatment plan depends on the type and severity of the disease. In general, the aim of the treatment is to manage the symptoms and improve the quality of life of the patients.

## Drug response

There is limited information available on drug response associated with TYROBP gene variations.

## Related papers

- Klesney-Tait, J., et al. "DAP12 signaling: from immune cells to bone modeling and brain myelination." Journal of Clinical Investigation 113.2 (2004): 170-177. DOI: 10.1172/JCI20907
- Paloneva, J., et al. "Loss of function mutations in TYROBP (DAP12) result in a presenile dementia with bone cysts." Nature genetics 25.3 (2000): 357-361. DOI: 10.1038/78084
- Tomasello, E., et al. "Tyrosine-based switch motif regulates intracellular targeting and function of DAP12." Journal of Cell Science 121.6 (2008): 767-777. DOI: 10.1242/jcs.021741

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**