---
title: "N4BP2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: N4BP2"
tags: ['N4BP2', 'Cancer', 'Ubiquitination', 'ScaffoldProtein', 'CellProliferation', 'CellMigration', 'BreastCancer', 'GeneExpression']
---

## Gene: N4BP2

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 4
- Location: 4q31.1

### Pathology and Function
- N4BP2 (NEDD4-binding protein 2) gene encodes a cytosolic protein that serves as a scaffold protein. It mediates the interaction of NEDD4L (E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase) with its substrates to support the ubiquitination process.
- It also plays a vital role in cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, indicating its involvement in cancer development. 

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: HGNC:17862
- NCBI Entrez: 64785
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000197023
- OMIM ID: 611693
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q8IWZ4
- Aliases: FLJ22208, KIAA1639

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID
- No AA mutations associated with this gene.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels associated with this gene.

### Related Diseases
- Studies suggest the involvement of the N4BP2 gene in various types of cancer, including breast, lung, head and neck, and colorectal cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- The treatment options and prognosis for cancer are patient-specific and depend on various other factors.

### Drug Response
- No known drug response associated with this gene.

### Related Papers
- 1. Wang H, Yue J, Li P, Zhou Y, Wang X, Gao Y, Zhou X, Zhang F, Zhang Z, Liu H. Nedd4-binding protein 2 (N4BP2) promotes breast cancer cell proliferation and migration. Journal of Cancer. 2017;8(10):1797-1806. doi:10.7150/jca.18154
- 2. Khan OM, Carvalho J, Spencer-Dene B, Mitter R, Frith D, Snijders AP, Wood SA, Behrens A. The deubiquitinase USP9X regulates the balance between proliferation and senescence in human fibroblasts. Aging cell. 2014 Oct;13(5):769-70. doi: 10.1111/acel.12215. PMID: 24913514.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**