---
title: "ZCCHC8"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: ZCCHC8 "
tags: ['ZCCHC8', 'GeneFunction', 'GenomicLocation', 'Aliases', 'SomaticVariants', 'RelatedDisease', 'TreatmentAndPrognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: ZCCHC8 
- Function for gene: ZCCHC8 is a zinc finger and CCHC domain-containing protein that is expressed in testes. It has been suggested to play a role in pre-mRNA splicing and regulation of gene expression.
- External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:
    - External IDs: HGNC: 25140, NCBI Entrez: 65248, Ensembl: ENSG00000182113, OMIM: 612334, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6P5M2
    - Genomic location: Chr 13q32.3
    - Aliases: FLJ13057, D15Ertd789e, ENSG00000182113
- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID: No non-synonymous mutations have been reported in the ZCCHC8 gene.
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: No somatic variants have been reported in the ZCCHC8 gene.
- Related disease: ZCCHC8 has been implicated in some cancers as it is differentially expressed in tumor tissues, however, no specific diseases have been directly linked to mutations in this gene.
- Treatment and prognosis: As ZCCHC8 has not been directly linked to any diseases, treatment and prognosis cannot be provided.
- Drug response: As ZCCHC8 has not been directly linked to any diseases, drug response cannot be provided.
- Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:
    - "_ZCCHC8 competes with ZCCHC14 for binding to the RNA m7G cap to regulate mRNA processing_" by Urdaneta et al. (2019). DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-09617-8
    - "_Human protein-coding genes and gene annotation_" by Harrow et al. (2012). DOI: 10.1038/nature11246

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**