---
title: "MT CO3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene MT-CO3"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'MT-CO3', 'MitochondrialDNA', 'OxidativePhosphorylation', 'MitochondrialDisorders', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about gene MT-CO3

## Genetic Position
MT-CO3 is a gene located on the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and is positioned on the heavy (H) strand at the mitochondrial genome position 10,390-11,069.


## Pathology and Function
The MT-CO3 gene encodes cytochrome c oxidase subunit III (COXIII), which plays a crucial role in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). COXIII is part of the respiratory chain enzyme complex IV that catalyzes the reduction of oxygen to water. Dysfunctions in COXIII may lead to mitochondrial disorders including Leigh syndrome, chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia (CPEO), and Mitochondrial Encephalomyopathy with Lactic Acidosis and Stroke-like episodes (MELAS).


## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location

- External IDs: HGNC:7455, NCBI Gene:4513, Ensembl:ENSG00000210077, OMIM:516030, UniProtKB: P00414

- Aliases: COIII, MTCO3, MT-CO3, Cox3

- Genomic location: Mitochondrial DNA (H-strand): 10,390-11,069


## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Several mutations have been found in the MT-CO3 gene that have been linked to mitochondrial diseases. Below is a list of some of the mutations along with their type and dbSNP IDs.

|M./c.	|Mutation Type	|dbSNP ID	|Disease condition|
|-------|--------------|-----------|-----------------|
|G35A	|Missense	   |rs267606826|Myopathy          |
|T91A	|Missense	   |-	         |-	               |
|T10191C	|Missense or Nonsense |  rs199476128, rs207290944 | Mitochondrial Myopathy, Leigh Syndrome|
|G10967A	|Synonymous	   |rs201744905|-	               |
|T10454C	|Missense	   |rs121908623|Mitochondrial Encephalomyopathy|
|T10463C	|Missense	   |rs121908625|MELAS	           |


## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Somatic mutations in the MT-CO3 gene are not commonly reported in literature.

## Related Diseases
Mutations and abnormalities in the MT-CO3 gene have been associated with various mitochondrial diseases including Myopathy, Mitochondrial Encephalomyopathy, Leigh Syndrome, and MELAS.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for mitochondrial diseases caused by mutations in the MT-CO3 gene. However, some therapies and medications may help alleviate symptoms and improve the quality of life. Treatment and prognosis depend on the severity and the type of mitochondrial disorder.

## Drug Response
There are no known drugs that directly target the MT-CO3 gene. However, treatment options for symptoms associated with mitochondrial disease include vitamins, antioxidants, and enzyme-fortified food.

## References
- Andrews, R. M., Kubacka, I., Chinnery, P. F., Lightowlers, R. N., Turnbull, D. M., & Howell, N. (1999). Reanalysis and revision of the Cambridge reference sequence for human mitochondrial DNA. Nature genetics, 23(2), 147-147. DOI: [10.1038/13779](https://doi.org/10.1038/13779))
- MT-CO3 gene page on [HGNC](https://www.genenames.org/data/gene-symbol-report/#!/hgnc_id/HGNC:7455))
- MT-CO3 gene page on [Ensembl](https://asia.ensembl.org/Homo_sapiens/Gene/Summary?g=ENSG00000210077;r=MT:10390-11069))
- MT-CO3 gene page on [OMIM](https://omim.org/entry/516030?search=MTCO3&highlight=mtco3))

**Author:** AI Assistant 

**DOI Links:** Not Applicable.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**