---
title: "HIF1A"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# **Information on Gene HIF1A**"
tags: ['HIF1A', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'HypoxiaResponse', 'Cancer', 'CardiovascularDiseases', 'Neurodegeneration', 'DrugDevelopment', 'MutationAnalysis']
---

# **Information on Gene HIF1A**
## **Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function**
- **Genetic Position:** HIF1A is located on chromosome 14q23.2.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in HIF1A can lead to various diseases including cancer, ischemic cardiovascular diseases, and neurode-generation.
- **Function:** The HIF1A gene encodes a transcription factor that plays a crucial role in response to hypoxic conditions. It regulates the expression of numerous genes that are involved in processes such as angiogenesis, erythropoiesis, glycolysis, and apoptosis.

## **External IDs, Genomic Location, and Aliases**
- **External IDs:** HGNC:4851, NCBI Entrez: 3091, Ensembl:ENSG00000100644, OMIM:603348, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q16665.
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 14q23.2
- **Aliases:** HIF-1α, HIF-1-alpha

## **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID**
- **Mutation Type:** Missense mutations
- **AA Mutation List:** The dbSNP ID and the amino acid substitution is shown below.

| dbSNP ID | AA Substitution |
|----------|----------------|
| rs11549465 | Gln238Arg |
| rs11549467 | Asp530Asn |
| rs1805797 | Pro582Ser |
| rs1806201 | Ala588Thr |
| rs1953290 | Val657Ile |

## **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for HIF1A in dbSNP.

## **Related Disease**
- Diseases related to HIF1A include:
   - Cancer
   - Ischemic cardiovascular diseases
   - Neurode-generation
   
## **Treatment and Prognosis**
- The treatment and prognosis of HIF1A-related diseases vary depending on the specific disease and stage of the disease.

## **Drug Response**
- Various drugs targeting HIF1A are currently being developed.

## **Subject, Author Name, DOI Links to Related Papers**
- [HIF-1α: review of roles and regulation in tumorigenesis]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1080/15384047.2019.1594377))
- [The role of HIF-1 in cancer therapy: a systematic review]([Click](https://doi.org/10.7150/jca.14992))
- [Potential Role for HIF-1α Inhibitors in Cancer Therapy: Insights from Preclinical Studies]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-16-0498))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**