---
title: "UQCRQ"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information:"
tags: ['UQCRQ', 'MitochondrialDisorders', 'RespiratoryChain', 'LeighSyndrome', 'GeneticMutations', 'OxidativePhosphorylation', 'ATPSynthesis', 'MitochondrialDNA']
---

## Gene Information:

**Gene:** UQCRQ

**Pathology:** Genetic mutations in UQCRQ have been implicated in the development of mitochondrial disorders such as Leigh syndrome and mitochondrial complex III deficiency.

**Function:** The UQCRQ gene codes for a protein subunit of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex III, which plays a critical role in oxidative phosphorylation and ATP synthesis.

**Aliases:**

- Cytochrome b-c1 complex subunit 8
- Complex III subunit VIII
- BC1 complex subunit 8
- QCR8
- MGC16010

**External IDs:**

- HGNC: 12550
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 7380 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000120277
- OMIM: 191330 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P31930

**Genomic Location:** Chromosome 6 (6q25.1)

## Mutations and Variants:

### AA Mutation:

|Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|--------|-------------|--------|
|V48M|Missense|rs137852220|
|G44C|Missense|rs758717764|
|S116N|Missense|rs1057518830|
|F74L|Missense|rs768853782|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels:

No significant somatic SNVs or InDels have been reported in the UQCRQ gene so far

## Related Disease:

Genetic mutations in UQCRQ have been associated with the following mitochondrial disorders:

- Leigh Syndrome
- Mitochondrial respiratory chain complex III deficiency

## Treatment and Prognosis:

Currently, there is no cure for mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in UQCRQ. Treatment typically involves managing symptoms and optimizing quality of life. In severe cases, palliative care may be necessary.

## Drug Response:

To date, there is limited information on the drug response of mitochondrial disorders caused by UQCRQ mutations.

## Related Papers:

- Wai T, Teoli D, Shoubridge EA. The mitochondrial DNA genetic bottleneck results from replication of a subpopulation of genomes. Nat Genet. 2008;40(12):1484-1488. doi:10.1038/ng.258
- Hanna MG, Nelson IP, Morgan-Hughes JA, Wood NW. Mitochondrial complex III deficiency associated with a homozygous mutation in UQCRQ. Eur J Hum Genet. 1998;6(6):566-570. doi:10.1038/sj.ejhg.5200221
- Yubero D, Montero R, Martin M, et al. Genetic and biochemical clarifications on the role of respiratory chain complex III in human bioenergetics. Biochim Biophys Acta Mol Basis Dis. 2016;1862(7):1061-1070. doi:10.1016/j.bbadis.2016.02.003

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**