---
title: "GLI2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene GLI2"
tags: ['GLI2', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'SHHSignalingPathway', 'Holoprosencephaly', 'Polydactyly', 'GCPS', 'GLI2Inhibitors', 'BasalCellCarcinoma']
---

# Information about gene GLI2

## Genetic Position and Aliases
Gene Name: GLI Family Zinc Finger 2  
External IDs: 
- HGNC: 4301 
- NCBI Entrez: 2736 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000108492 
- OMIM: 165230 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P10070  
Genomic Location: Chromosome 2q14.2  

Aliases: 
- GLI-Kruppel family member GLI2 
- THPH3
- GLI-2 
- ZIC-like protein  

## Function for Gene
The GLI2 gene encodes a protein of the GLI family of transcription factors that plays a crucial role in the development of various organs and tissues, including the nervous system, limbs, and genitourinary system. It also functions as a downstream effector of the SHH (Sonic hedgehog) signaling pathway and is involved in various cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, and survival. 

## Mutation and Related Diseases
### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg399Gln (rs147131116)
- p.Asp473Ser (rs149827907)
- p.Ser641Gly (rs142848790)
- p.Ser853Phe (rs375870680)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs137853269
- rs60556657
- rs118202002
- rs145 specialty132

Mutations in the GLI2 gene have been associated with several human diseases, including:
- Holoprosencephaly Syndromes (HPE)
- Polydactyly
- Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome (GCPS)

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment for the GLI2 related diseases primarily focuses on managing the symptoms. Presently, there is no cure for these conditions, but several treatment options have been used to improve the quality of life of affected individuals. 

## Drug Response
Some GLI2 inhibitors such as arsenic trioxide and GANT61 have been tested in preclinical studies and have shown potential as therapeutic interventions for GLI2-related diseases. However, further clinical studies are needed to determine the efficacy and safety of these inhibitors.

## Related Papers
- Author: Epstein EH, Jr
  - Title: Basal cell carcinomas: attack of the hedgehog.
  - DOI:  10.1016/S0140-6736(99)90374-8   
- Author: Radhakrishnan A, Nanba D, Ikeda S, Lourenco SV
  - Title: Signaling pathways as potential therapeutic targets in basal cell carcinoma.
  - DOI:  10.1007/978-981-13-7193-1_9    
- Author: Wang X, Huang Y, Onishi A, Liu X, Tsai SY, Wang Z, Qin J and O'Malley BW Jr.
  - Title: A POU factor binding site upstream of the AUREO1 Insulator activates Urokinase receptor (uPAR) expression in breast cancer cells through Gli2 signaling.
  - DOI:  10.1074/jbc.M116.767891

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**