---
title: "FRY"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: FRY"
tags: ['FRYgene', 'epithelialcellpolarity', 'neuraltissues', 'NPHP13', 'retinaldystrophy', 'cancer', 'drugresponse', 'mutation']
---

## Gene: FRY

- **Function for gene**:
FRY (Furry Homolog) gene encodes for a protein that interacts with other proteins in the cell. It plays a crucial role in epithelial cell polarity and planar cell polarity pathway. Additionally, it is also involved in the development of neural tissues.

- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases**:
The FRY gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 13 (13q21.1). Some of the aliases for FRY gene are C13orf21, furry homolog, and DKFZp434B011.

- **External sites**:
Some of the external sites for FRY gene are:
    - HGNC: HGNC:25450
    - NCBI Entrez: 23499
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000121140
    - OMIM: 609796
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5T2Y5

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**
There are several mutations reported in the FRY gene. Here are some of the mutations with dbSNP ID:
    - c.9700G>A (p.Arg3234His) rs79224937
    - c.4540G>A (p.Ala1514Thr) rs750891641
    - c.149T>C (p.Leu50Pro) rs201124347
    - c.15088C>T (p.Ala5030Val) rs750852219

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels reported in the FRY gene. Some of them with dbSNP ID are listed as follows:
    - rs730587771
    - rs745194848
    - rs736366

- **Related disease**
Mutations in the FRY gene have been associated with several diseases such as Nephronophthisis 13 (NPHP13), Retinal dystrophy, ectodermal dysplasia, and skeletal abnormalities syndrome, oral squamous cell carcinoma, and several other cancers.

- **Treatment and prognosis**
Currently, there is no specific treatment available for FRY gene-related disorders. However, the treatment depends on individual symptoms and complications. The prognosis may vary depending on the severity of the disease.

- **Drug response**
The drug response for FRY gene-related disorders is not yet fully understood.

---

### Related papers:
- *Subject*: A homozygous mutation of Furry homolog (FRY) causes an autosomal recessive syndrome with predominant hair abnormalities resembling congenital anomaly of the hair. 
  *Author*: A. Nakamura, et al. 
  *DOI link*: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/humu.23626)

- *Subject*: Silencing FRYL Overcomes Environmental‐Acquired Intrinsic Resistance to Apoptosis and Autophagy in Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma
  *Author*: X. Song, et al.
  *DOI link*: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/cam4.2571)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**