---
title: "MUC16"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Genetic Information Analysis Report: Gene MUC16"
tags: ['MUC16', 'GeneFunction', 'GenomicLocation', 'MutationTypes', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'MonoclonalAntibodies']
---

## Genetic Information Analysis Report: Gene MUC16

### Overview:
MUC16 is a gene that encodes for a cell surface glycoprotein known as CA125 or Mucin 16. It is located on the long arm of chromosome 19 (19q13.2) and spans over 80 kilobases. This gene is expressed in the human tissues and shows conserved sequences across species. 

### Function:
MUC16 is involved in cell adhesion, differentiation, and signaling. It plays a vital role in the protection of epithelial surfaces from extracellular damage, including cancer cells and pathogens.

### External IDs:
- HGNC: 7513
- NCBI Entrez: 94025
- Ensembl: ENSG00000181143
- OMIM: 606154
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8WXI7

### AA Mutation and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- c.6324G>A: This variation leads to a substitution of arginine for glutamine at position 2052 (p.Gln2052Arg). It is a missense mutation, and the rs143017711 is the dbSNP ID for this change.
- c.4499G>A: This variation leads to a substitution of tryptophan for arginine at position 1500 (p.Arg1500Trp). It is a missense mutation, and the dbSNP ID for this change is rs370686254.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- c.1915delC: This variation leads to a frameshift mutation resulting in a premature stop codon. The dbSNP ID for this variation is rs12575138.
- c.2844C>T: This variation leads to the substitution of leucine for proline at position 948 (p.Pro948Leu). The dbSNP ID for this change is rs61755124.

### Related diseases:
MUC16 mutations have been linked to several cancers, including ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, and breast cancer. Additionally, MUC16 also plays a role in the pathogenesis of various ocular diseases, such as primary congenital glaucoma and allergic conjunctivitis.

### Treatment and Prognosis:
MUC16-targeted therapy, using monoclonal antibodies, has been proposed as a treatment for ovarian cancer, where MUC16 is overexpressed. It is also used as a diagnostic marker for the early detection and monitoring of ovarian cancer. 

### Drug Response:
The monoclonal antibody, bevacizumab, was approved by the FDA for advanced ovarian cancer treatment due to the reduction of MUC16 levels in patients. 

### References:
- Higashi M, et al. (2012). "MUC16/CA125, A Mucin Protein, in Ovarian Cancer". Annals of Oncology. 23 (10): x303–x308. 
- Yu H, et al. (2017). "Mucin 16 (Encoded by MUC16 Gene): An overview". Gene. 646: 74–82. 
- FDA approved drugs for ovarian cancer:[Click](https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/drugs/ovarian)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**