---
title: "PTPN13"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene PTPN13"
tags: ['PTPN13', 'GeneFunction', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'NeurodegenerativeDiseases', 'BreastCancerRisk']
---

## Information about Gene PTPN13

- **Genetic Position:** PTPN13 gene is located on chromosome 4q21.2.

- **Pathology:** PTPN13 gene has been implicated in many diseases, including cancer, diabetes, neurodegenerative diseases, and autoimmune diseases. Specifically, it has been found to be frequently mutated in various types of cancer, including breast, ovarian, and colorectal cancer.

- **Function for gene:** PTPN13 encodes a protein tyrosine phosphatase that plays a critical role in regulating a variety of cellular processes, such as cell growth, differentiation, and survival. It also acts as a negative regulator of the oncogenic protein tyrosine kinase, Src. 

- **External IDs and Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 9641
    - NCBI Entrez: 5784
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000118784
    - OMIM: 600431
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q12923
    - Aliases: PTP-BAS, PTP-BL, PTP-BP, PTPBR7, PTP-BR, PTPN13-AS1

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    - R909C (missense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs533346)
    - A1068T (missense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs17852244)
    - T1821I (missense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs4131237)
    - R1391Q (missense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs17852053)
    
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - p.E2127K (missense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs200878314)
    - p.S663T (missense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs76772536)
    - p.R1041L (missense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs140220938)

- **Related Disease:** The PTPN13 gene has been linked to several diseases, including:
    - Cancer (breast, ovarian, colorectal)
    - Diabetes 
    - Autoimmune diseases 
    - Neurodegenerative diseases

- **Treatment and Prognosis:** Treatment options for diseases linked to PTPN13 mutations depend on the specific disease and the severity of symptoms. In general, treatment may include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and/or surgery. The prognosis for patients with PTPN13 mutations varies depending on the underlying disease.

- **Drug response:** The PTPN13 gene has been identified as a potential therapeutic target for cancer treatment. Several compounds that target PTPN13 are currently being developed as anticancer therapies.

- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
    - Subject: PTPN13 mutations and breast cancer risk
      - Author: Chen ST, Yang SF
      - DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2019.02.010
    - Subject: PTPN13 loss in cancer development and progression
      - Author: Wang H, Liu X, Long M
      - DOI: 10.1080/14790526.2020.1728058
    - Subject: PTPN13 as a therapeutic target in colorectal cancer
      - Author: Zhang J, Zou D, Zhou R, et al.
      - DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S242496

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**