---
title: "MT TG"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene MT-TG"
tags: ['MTTG', 'MitochondrialGenome', 'TransferRNA', 'MELASsyndrome', 'MitochondrialDisease', 'SupportiveCare', 'NoKnownDrug', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

## Gene MT-TG

- **Genetic Position:** MT-TG is a gene located on the mitochondrial genome.
- **Function:** MT-TG provides instructions for making the transfer RNA molecule that carries the amino acid tryptophan.
- **External IDs, Aliases and Genomic Location:**
    - HGNC: 7479 
    - NCBI Entrez: 100529047 
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000228263 
    - OMIM: 590075
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BUX1
    - Genomic Location: Mitochondrial genome, chromosome MT: 3964-4391.
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**
    - There are no known AA mutations in MT-TG gene.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels in MT-TG gene.
- **Related Disease:** Mutations in MT-TG gene have been associated with mitochondrial diseases such as Mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS) syndrome.
- **Treatment and Prognosis:** Treatment options for mitochondrial disease are limited and mainly involve supportive care. The prognosis for individuals with mitochondrial disease varies depending on the severity and type of the condition.
- **Drug Response:** There is no known drug specifically targeting the MT-TG gene.
- **Subject, Author Name, DOI links to Related Papers:**
    - No related papers were found for this gene.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**