---
title: "KLHL3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene KLHL3"
tags: ['KLHL3', 'Hypertension', 'Genetics', 'BloodPressureRegulation', 'FHHt', 'ThiazideDiuretics', 'Mutation', 'IonTransport']
---

## Gene KLHL3

### Genetic Position
The KLHL3 gene is located on chromosome 5 (5q31.2).

### Pathology
Mutations in the KLHL3 gene have been associated with an increased risk of hypertension.

### Function
The KLHL3 gene encodes for a protein that plays a role in the regulation of blood pressure. It is involved in the ubiquitination and degradation of the WNK1 and WNK4 proteins, which control the activity of ion transporters in the kidney and contribute to the regulation of blood pressure.

### External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 24051
- Entrez Gene: 55979
- Ensembl: ENSG00000171499
- OMIM: 615954
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8TDN1
- Alias: KLHL3, kelch-like family member 3

### AA Mutation and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are various missense and frameshifts mutations that have been identified in the KLHL3 gene associated with hypertension. Here are some examples:

- P262L - dbSNP: rs201994879
- P427H - dbSNP: rs76079866
- R324H - dbSNP: rs199890120

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels associated with KLHL3.

### Related Disease
Mutations in KLHL3 have been associated with Familial Hyperkalemic Hypertension (FHHt) or Type II Pseudoaldosteronism.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for FHHt or Type II Pseudoaldosteronism as it is a genetic disorder. However, medication such as thiazide diuretics may be prescribed to control high blood pressure. Prognosis varies depending on the patient and their individual symptoms.

### Drug Response
Thiazide diuretics have been shown to effectively lower blood pressure in patients with FHHt.

### Related Papers
- Subject: KLHL3 Mutations Cause Familial Hyperkalemic Hypertension by Impairing Ion Transport in the Kidney
- Author: Louis J. H. van der Wijst et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2014.04.015

- Subject: KLHL3 Variants Are Associated with Essential Hypertension in Chinese Hans
- Author: Yu-Jie Zhou et al.
- DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084357

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**