---
title: "KIR3DL1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene KIR3DL1 "
tags: ['KIR3DL1', 'NaturalKillerCells', 'MHCClassI', 'ViralInfections', 'Cancer', 'GeneticVariation', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'HLA-BExpression']
---

## Gene KIR3DL1 

### Position and Aliases
- Chromosome 19q13.4-q13.5
- Alias: CD158 antigen-like family member B1, KIR-023GB, KIR3DL, MGC138638

### Function
- Encodes for a natural killer cell receptor that is involved in the recognition of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules.
- Plays a role in regulating the immune response to viral infections and cancer. 

### External IDs
- HGNC: 6340
- NCBI Entrez: 3811
- Ensembl: ENSG00000204687
- OMIM: 602102
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P43629

### AA Mutation and Mutation types
- Most of the variations in KIR3DL1 show amino acid substitutions with a high level of polymorphism.
- Several SNPs have been documented, including rs113420032, rs3740973, and rs78531876, among others.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
- Information about somatic SNVs/InDels for KIR3DL1 is not currently available in public databases such as dbSNP.

### Related diseases
- KIR3DL1 genetic variation has been associated with the susceptibility to some viral infections, including HIV and hepatitis B virus (HBV).
- Also, the polymorphism of KIR3DL1 is known to play a role in the progression and severity of some types of cancer such as leukemia, melanoma, and hepatocellular carcinoma.

### Treatment and prognosis
- No specific treatments for the genetic variation in KIR3DL1 are currently available.
- Studies suggest that KIR3DL1 is a potential therapeutic target for cancer and viral infections, but there is a need for more research to explore this further.

### Drug response
- No specific drugs have been developed targeting KIR3DL1 genetic variation.

### Related papers
- Author: Carrington M
  - Title: Genetic variation and HLA-B expression in tumors from patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.
  - DOI: 10.1186/s13148-015-0102-3
- Author: Milagres LG
  - Title: KIR2DL2/S2 and KIR3DL1 alleles are associated with susceptibility to chronic hepatitis B infection.
  - DOI: 10.1111/liv.12301

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**