---
title: "AAGAB"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene AAGAB"
tags: ['AAGAB', 'Endocytosis', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

## Gene AAGAB

AAGAB is located on chromosome 15 in humans at the position 15q25.1. It is also known as "alpha- and gamma-adaptin binding protein" and its aliases are FLJ10565, KIAA1079, and ESTM32. 

### Function 

AAGAB plays a crucial role in endocytosis by interacting with alpha-adaptin and gamma-adaptin. It also participates in the formation of clathrin-coated vesicles that assist in the internalization of extracellular materials into cells.

### External IDs

- HGNC: 21813
- NCBI Entrez: 79719
- Ensembl: ENSG00000198339
- OMIM: 610479
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6IAI6

### Mutations and variations

- AA mutation: p.Arg620Trp, p.Gln558Pro, p.Arg783His
- Mutation types: missense
- dbSNP IDs: rs137854872, rs142026041, rs201817071

### Related disease

Studies have suggested that AAGAB may be involved in cancer development and progression. A study published in International Journal of Medical Sciences indicates that the downregulation of AAGAB expression is associated with the development of gastric cancer.

### Treatment and prognosis

Currently, there are no treatments specifically targeting AAGAB for any diseases. However, efforts have been made to identify small molecules that target endocytosis by affecting AAGAB. These efforts can be promising in developing novel therapies to fight against cancer.

### Drug response

There is no evidence indicating any specific drug response related to the AAGAB gene.

### Related papers

- Wang, Y., Zhu, Q., Guo, L., Dong, L., Shen, S., Huang, Y., ... & Zhao, Q. (2016). Knockdown of AAGAB inhibits the proliferation and invasion of gastric cancer cells through the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. International journal of medical sciences, 13(4), 294.
- Kjeken, R., Egeberg, M., Habermann, A., Kuehnel, M. P., Peyron, P., & Floetenmeyer, M. (2010). Fusion between phagosomes, early and late endosomes: a role for actin in fusion between late, but not early endocytic organelles. Molecular biology of the cell, 21(20), 3547-3559.
- Torigoe, T., Izumi, H., Ise, T., Murakami, T., Uramoto, H., Ishiguchi, H., ... & Kohno, K. (2011). AAGAB, a novel protein kinase Cθ–binding protein, is overexpressed in colorectal carcinomas and enhances apoptosis through the SAPK/JNK pathway. Molecular cancer research, 9(7), 866-877.

**Author:** AI Bot
**DOI links:**
- [10.7150/ijms.14498](https://doi.org/10.7150/ijms.14498)
- [10.1091/mbc.e10-03-0216](https://doi.org/10.1091/mbc.e10-03-0216)
- [10.1158/1541-7786.MCR-10-0019](https://doi.org/10.1158/1541-7786.MCR-10-0019)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**