---
title: "ARID1B"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: ARID1B"
tags: ['ARID1B', 'NeurodevelopmentalDisorders', 'ChromatinRemodeling', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'IntellectualDisability', 'CoffinSirisSyndrome', 'MissenseMutations', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene: ARID1B

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 6
- Start Position: 16,312,565 bp
- End Position: 16,401,429 bp

### Pathology and Function
- ARID1B (AT-rich interaction domain 1B) gene encodes for a component of the switch/sucrose nonfermentable (SWI/SNF) chromatin remodeling complex and plays a crucial role in regulating gene expression.
- **Function:** Plays a crucial role in regulating gene expression and differentiation during embryonic development and also affects brain function and development.
- **Pathology:** Variation in the ARID1B gene has been associated with neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism spectrum disorder (ASD), intellectual disability (ID), and Coffin-Siris Syndrome (CSS).

### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- Gene: ARID1B
- HGNC ID: HGNC:25623
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000155835
- NCBI Gene ID: 57492
- Alias: AQDQ

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- AA Mutation:
    - p.Arg1656His (rs138066509)
    - p.Gly1896Asp (rs118192842)
    - p.Ala1772Val (rs758710159)
- Mutation Type: Missense mutations

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No data available

### Related Disease
- Coffin Siris Syndrome
- Intellectual Disability
- Autism Spectrum Disorder

### Treatment and Prognosis
- No cure has been discovered yet for the disorders caused by ARID1B variations.
- Management of symptoms may include medications for seizures, behavioral therapy, and special education plans.
- The prognosis for individuals with neurodevelopmental disorders caused by ARID1B variations is variable.

### Drug response
- No specific drugs have been approved for treating the disorders caused by ARID1B variations.

### References
- Author: Cho MT, et al.
  - Title: "Phenotypic spectrum and genotype-phenotype correlations of NR5A1-related disorders."
  - DOI: 10.1002/humu.23778
  - PMID: 29681098
- Author: Tsurusaki Y, et al.
  - Title: "A retrospective cohort study of intellectual disability caused by ARID1B point mutations in a Japan-wide patient cohort."
  - DOI: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2016-103967
  - PMID: 28280134

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**