---
title: "TLR2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### **Gene: TLR2**"
tags: ['TLR2', 'InnateImmuneSystem', 'PathogenRecognition', 'InflammatoryDiseases', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticPolymorphisms', 'MetaAnalysis']
---

### **Gene: TLR2**

#### **Gene Information**
TLR2 (Toll-like receptor 2) gene is located on chromosome 4q32.1 and is 9,393 base pairs in length. This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the Toll-like receptor family and is involved in the recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns.

#### **Function**
TLR2 plays a key role in the innate immune system by recognizing and binding to pathogenic components such as bacterial peptidoglycan and lipopeptides, resulting in the initiation of inflammatory responses.

#### **External IDs and Aliases**
- HGNC: TLR2
- NCBI Entrez: 7097
- Ensembl: ENSG00000137462
- OMIM: 603028
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60603

#### **AA Mutation list and Mutation type with dbSNP ID**
- c.2251G>A (p.Gly751Asp) rs11466653
- c.2029A>C (p.Ser677Arg) rs5743708
- c.2029A>G (p.Ser677Gly) rs5743709

#### **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**
None reported

#### **Related Diseases**
- Lyme borreliosis
- Malaria
- Tuberculosis
- Sepsis
- Inflammatory bowel disease

#### **Treatment and Prognosis**
Studies suggest that TLR2 plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of several infectious and inflammatory diseases, making it a potential therapeutic target. Further research is required to identify the pharmacological agents that could modulate TLR2 function to prevent or treat various diseases.

#### **Drug Response**
Some studies have suggested that modulation of TLR2 signaling could be a potential therapeutic strategy for certain diseases. For example, agonists of TLR2 have been shown to have a protective effect against viral, bacterial, and fungal infections.

#### **Subject, Author Name, DOI links to related papers**
- Subject: Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) genetic polymorphisms and susceptibility to tuberculosis: a meta-analysis.
  - Author: Shi L, Yao Y, Wang C, Xu L, Li Z, Wu C, Wang X.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ijid.2019.09.018
  
- Subject: TLR2 polymorphisms and chronic hepatitis C: a case-control study.
  - Author: Heikal NM, El-Shal AS, Abo-Elghar M (2019).
  - DOI: 10.1080/00365521.2019.1597118
  
- Subject: Toll-like receptor 2 modulates adipose tissue inflammation and insulin resistance in obesity.
  - Author: Tsukumo D, Carvalho-Filho M, Carvalheira J, Prada P, Hirabara S, Schenka A, Aronoff D, Milbank E, Vassallo J, Curi R, Velloso L, Saad M.
  - DOI: 10.2337/db06-1595

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**