---
title: "CYP21A2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene CYP21A2"
tags: ['CYP21A2', 'CongenitalAdrenalHyperplasia', 'CortisolBiosynthesis', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'EndocrineDisease', 'AdrenalGland', 'Enzyme']
---

# Gene CYP21A2

## Genetic Position
The CYP21A2 gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 6 (6p21.3).

## Pathology
Mutations in the CYP21A2 gene are associated with congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), which is a group of autosomal recessive disorders that affect cortisol biosynthesis.

## Function
The CYP21A2 gene encodes an enzyme called 21-hydroxylase, which is responsible for converting progesterone and 17-alpha-hydroxyprogesterone to cortisol and 11-deoxycortisol in the adrenal cortex. This is a critical step in the biosynthesis of cortisol, which plays a key role in regulating metabolism and stress response.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 2627
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 1588
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000198558
- OMIM ID: 613815
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P08686
- Alias: CYP21, CYPIIC21, P450C21

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-------------|--------|
|C27Y|Missense|rs775589487|
|V281L|Missense|rs121912683|
|I172N|Missense|rs121912682|
|Q318X|Nonsense|rs28928874|
|G110V|Missense|rs104894256|
|P30L|Missense|rs121912680|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for the CYP21A2 gene in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the CYP21A2 gene are associated with several forms of CAH, including salt-wasting CAH and non-classic CAH.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for CAH usually involves cortisol replacement therapy and mineralocorticoid therapy if necessary. With appropriate management, individuals with CAH can have a normal life expectancy.

## Drug Response
Certain medications, such as dexamethasone, can be used to suppress adrenal gland function and decrease androgen production in individuals with CAH.

## Related Papers
- Nordenström A, Falhammar H (2015). Management of endocrine disease: Diagnosis and management of the patient with non-classic CAH due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency. European Journal of Endocrinology 173(4):R131-51. doi: 10.1530/EJE-15-0331.
- Speiser PW, Arlt W, Auchus RJ, Baskin LS, Conway GS, Merke DP, Meyer-Bahlburg HF, Miller WL, Murad MH, Oberfield SE, White PC (2018). Congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to steroid 21-hydroxylase deficiency: An Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism 103(11):4043-4088. doi: 10.1210/jc.2018-01865.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**