---
title: "TYR"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene TYR"
tags: ['TYRgene', 'OculocutaneousAlbinism', 'MelaninProduction', 'Mutation', 'SkinCancer', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene TYR

## Genetic Position
- TYR gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 11 (11q14.3)

## Pathology
- Mutation in TYR gene can lead to oculocutaneous albinism type 1 (OCA1) which is an inherited disorder that affects the skin, hair, and eyes. Mutations can affect the production of melanin which leads to a reduction in pigmentation of hair, skin, and eyes.
- In some cases, TYR mutations have been associated with increased risk of non-melanoma skin cancer.

## Function for Gene
- TYR gene encodes tyrosinase, an enzyme involved in the production of melanin.
- Melanin is responsible for skin, hair, and eye color.

## External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- Gene ID: 7299
- Genomic location: Chr11:89,782,471-89,799,935
- Aliases: OCA1A, TRP1, CMM8

## External Sites 
- HGNC: 12471
- NCBI Entrez: 7299
- Ensembl: ENSG00000165060
- OMIM: 606933
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P14679

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg402Gln (rs1042602)
- p.Arg77Gln (rs1126809)
- p.Arg299Cys (rs1800414)
- p.Gly47Asp (rs1800419)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are several reported somatic mutations in TYR but none are present in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
- Oculocutaneous albinism type 1 (OCA1)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is currently no cure for OCA1 but individuals can manage the symptoms through protective measures such as sun protection and avoiding sun exposure. 
- The prognosis for individuals with OCA1 varies depending on the severity of the disorder.

## Drug Response
- There are currently no specific drugs for treating OCA1.

## Related Papers and DOI Links
- Lee ST, Nicholls RD, Schnur RE, Guida LC, Lu-Kuo J, Spinner NB, Zackai EH, Spritz RA. Diverse mutations of the human tyrosinase gene associated with variable recessive inheritance of oculocutaneous albinism. Am J Hum Genet. 1994 Apr;54(4):669-79. PMID: 8128962; PMCID: PMC1918266.
- Peng C, Wang Y, Xu Y, Hoffman R, Xu X. Expanding the genotype-phenotype spectrum for oculocutaneous albinism type 1: identification of a deep intronic TYR mutation in a patient with non-pigmented hair. Int J Dermatol. 2019 Aug;58(8):e151-e154. doi: 10.1111/ijd.14447. Epub 2019 Jan 2. PMID: 30600570.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**