---
title: "FIP1L1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for FIP1L1"
tags: ['FIP1L1', 'ChronicEosinophilicLeukemia', 'mRNA', 'Polyadenylation', 'TyrosineKinaseInhibitors', 'TargetedTherapy', 'Prognosis', 'Mutation']
---

# Gene Information for FIP1L1

## Genetic Position
The FIP1-like1 (FIP1L1) gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 4 at position 12 (4q12).

## Pathology
The FIP1L1 gene has been found to be involved in a rare type of leukemia called chronic eosinophilic leukemia (CEL). This leukemia is characterized by the presence of abnormally high levels of eosinophils, a type of white blood cell. In CEL, a chromosomal abnormality called FIP1L1-PDGFRA fusion is usually observed.

## Function
The FIP1L1 gene encodes a protein known as FIP1-like1. This protein is part of a protein complex involved in mRNA polyadenylation. mRNA polyadenylation is part of the process of gene expression, in which a specific sequence of DNA is transcribed and translated into a protein.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 8883
- NCBI Entrez: 81608
- Ensembl: ENSG00000111540
- OMIM: 606578
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6ICC0

Aliases for FIP1L1 include FIP1-like 1, DKFZp686L20217, FIP1L, and DKFZp434L083.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several amino acid mutations that have been reported for FIP1L1, including G718A, K550N, and V617F. The mutation type for these mutations is a missense mutation, as they result in a change in the amino acid sequence of the protein. However, there are no dbSNP IDs associated with these mutations at this time.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs and InDels that have been reported for FIP1L1, including rs72555385 and rs75658235.

## Related Disease
The FIP1L1 gene is associated with chronic eosinophilic leukemia (CEL), a rare type of leukemia characterized by the abnormal presence of eosinophils.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment options for CEL vary, but may include chemotherapy, stem cell transplantation, and targeted therapy with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Prognosis can also vary depending on the severity and progression of the disease.

## Drug Response
The use of TKIs, such as imatinib, has been found to be effective in treating CEL with the FIP1L1-PDGFRA fusion. Response rates to TKIs have been reported to be high, with complete remission achieved in some patients.

## Related Papers
- Subject: FIP1L1-PDGFRA: a molecular target in mastocytosis and other eosinophilic disorders.
  - Author: Panteli KE, Lagadinou ED, et al.
  - DOI: 10.2217/14796694.1.3.313

- Subject: Chronic eosinophilic leukemia-not otherwise specified: clinical outcome and long-term follow-up of 25 patients.
  - Author: Gotlib J, Cools J, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1182/blood-2003-09-3277

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**