---
title: "ACLY"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ACLY"
tags: ['GeneACLY', 'ATPcitratelyase', 'FattyAcidSynthesis', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Metabolism', 'ProstateCancer']
---

# Gene ACLY

## Information

- **Function for Gene:** The ACLY gene encodes ATP-citrate lyase protein, which is an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of citrate and CoA into oxaloacetate and acetyl-CoA, a crucial step in fatty acid synthesis. 

- **Genomic location and aliases:** The ACLY gene is located on chromosome 17q21.32 and is also known as ATPCL, ACL, ATP-citrate synthase, and citrate cleavage enzyme.

- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 132
    - NCBI Entrez: 47
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000130829
    - OMIM: 108729
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P53396
    
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    - No somatic mutations listed 
    
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - rs2307290
    - rs17854499
    
- **Related disease:** Mutations in the ACLY gene have been associated with various cancers such as lung, breast, and prostate cancer. 

- **Treatment and prognosis:** As of now, there is no specific treatment or prognosis related to mutations in the ACLY gene. 

- **Drug response:** No information available on drug response related to mutations in the ACLY gene. 

- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**

    - "ATP-Citrate Lyase Links Cellular Metabolism to Histone Acetylation" by Wellen KE et al. DOI: 10.1016/j.molcel.2009.06.030
    
    - "Targeting the Warburg effect with a novel glucose transporter inhibitor to overcome gemcitabine resistance in pancreatic cancer cells" by Liu H et al. DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.01.125 
    
    - "Targeting ACLY sensitizes castration-resistant prostate cancer cells to AR antagonism by impinging on an ACLY-AMPK-AR feedback mechanism" by Sun C et al. DOI: 10.1016/j.molcel.2018.01.004

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**