---
title: "CYB5R4"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: CYB5R4"
tags: ['CYB5R4', 'GeneticDisorders', 'MetabolicDisorders', 'DrugMetabolism', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene Information: CYB5R4

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 12
- Location: 12q24.31

## Pathology
- The abberations in gene CYB5R4 have been associated with various genetic disorders. 
- Disrupting enzymatic activities of the CYB5R4 protein may lead to altered lipid metabolism and other metabolic disorders.

## Function
- CYB5R4 encodes for a flavin-containing enzyme, cytochrome b5 reductase, that is involved in fatty acid desaturation, cholesterol synthesis, and drug metabolism. 

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
- HGNC ID: 25888
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 55289
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000161547
- OMIM ID: 608107
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9H4B8
- Aliases: CYPB5R4, b5R4

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- There are various amino acid (AA) mutations reported for CYB5R4 with their mutation type and dbSNP ID.
- For example:
    - Missense mutation: p.Arg124Cys (rs200977609)
    - Frameshift mutation: p.Lys296AsnfsTer17 (rs759105269)
    - Nonsense mutation: p.Trp277Ter (rs1420508354)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Multiple somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for CYB5R4, some of which are:
    - rs368286541
    - rs267606664
    - rs765749930

## Related Disease
- Alterations in CYB5R4 have been associated with various diseases, including:
    - Metabolic syndrome
    - Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)
    - Familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCHL)
    - Cardiovascular disease

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is currently no specific treatment for CYB5R4-associated disorders.
- Treatment and prognosis for patients depend on the severity and manifestation of the underlying disease.

## Drug Response
- Alterations in CYB5R4 may lead to altered drug metabolism and response, especially for drugs that are metabolized by the liver.

## References
- Schanze D, et al. (2017) Mutations in CYB5R4 impair cobalamin accumulation and distribution. J Inherit Metab Dis. 40(1):57-65. doi: 10.1007/s10545-016-9967-9
- Zhang Y, et al. (2014) Association Between Single Nucleotide Polymorphism of CYB5R4 and Antipsychotic-Induced Weight Gain. Front Pharmacol. 5:141. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2014.00141

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**