---
title: "TP63"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene TP63"
tags: ['TP63', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'EpithelialTissues', 'Mutations', 'Disease', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene TP63

**Genetic Position:** The TP63 gene is located on chromosome 3q28 and spans about 174kb of genomic DNA.

**Pathology:** Mutations in TP63 have been associated with numerous diseases, including ectodermal dysplasia, ankyloblepharon-ectodermal dysplasia-clefting (AEC) syndrome and split hand/foot malformation. Furthermore, TP63 is implicated as an oncogene in several human cancers, including squamous cell carcinoma of the skin, lung, and head and neck.
 
**Function:** TP63 is a transcription factor that plays a critical role in the development of epithelial tissues. It is known to regulate cell cycle, apoptosis, and DNA damage response in stem cells and progenitor cells.

**External IDs and Aliases:** 
- HGNC: 12014
- NCBI Entrez: 8626
- Ensembl: ENSG00000170345
- OMIM: 603273
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H3D4

**AA Mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** Mutations in TP63 can lead to alterations in amino acid sequences, causing functional changes to the TP63 protein. Some known mutations with dbSNP IDs are:
- R204W (rs77931231)
- R304Q (rs1554196024)
- L517R (rs372500617)

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** 
- rs587779654 (p.Thr271Met)
- rs1392231698 (p.His281Tyr)
- rs75986956 (p.Arg347Gln)

**Related Diseases:** TP63 mutations have been attributed to various diseases such as ectrodactyly, ectodermal dysplasia (EEC) syndrome, Rapp-Hodgkin syndrome (RHS), and ankyloblepharon-ectodermal dysplasia-clefting (AEC) syndrome.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** Treatment options for diseases linked to TP63 mutations depend on the specific condition and symptoms exhibited by the patient. Some cases may require surgeries to correct birth defects, while others may need medication and other types of therapies. The prognosis of such diseases can vary but usually depends on the severity of the symptoms. 

**Drug Response:** There is currently no known drug or targeted therapy that directly targets TP63 mutations.

**Subject, Author Name, DOI links to Related Papers:**
- "The TP63 gene: an important player in skin cancer" by Alessandro Di Duca and Wim Declercq. DOI: 10.3390/cancers10070224
- "TP53 and TP63: Outlaw Proteins in Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma" by Amanda Johnson, Amber Boyce, and Sarah Arron. DOI: 10.1016/j.jid.2014.06.023
- "P53, prb, and p63: teammates in cell fate decisions" by Xinbin Chen and Jijun Hao. DOI: 10.4161/cc.8.19.9605

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**