---
title: "CYP3A7"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: CYP3A7"
tags: ['CYP3A7', 'cytochromeP450', 'lateonsetsteroid21hydroxylasedeficiency', 'drugmetabolism', 'adrenalhyperplasia', 'geneticregulation', 'adversedrugreactions', 'nephroticsyndrome']
---

## Gene: CYP3A7

### Genetic Position:
Chromosome: 7 

Location: 7q22.1

### Pathology:
CYP3A7 is a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily. It is primarily expressed in fetal liver and is involved in drug metabolism in utero. However, its expression decreases significantly after birth and is almost undetectable in adults. Mutations in this gene have been linked to late-onset steroid 21-hydroxylase deficiency and adrenal hyperplasia.

### Function:
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. It plays a role in steroid hormone synthesis and drug metabolism.

### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 2622
- NCBI Entrez: 1577
- Ensembl: ENSG00000156006
- OMIM: 603089
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P24462

Aliases:
- CYPIIIA7
- CP37

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- c.215G>A (p.Ala72Thr), rs147659484
- c.878T>C (p.Ile293Thr), rs1135840
- c.-43T>C (promoter), rs45463801

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- c.859G>A (p.Gly287Arg), rs104894287
- c.1315G>A (p.Asn439Asp), rs28383483

### Related Disease:
Late-onset steroid 21-hydroxylase deficiency 

### Treatment and Prognosis:
The treatment plan and prognosis depend on the severity of the deficiency and the age at which it is diagnosed. Management may include hormone replacement therapy and surgical interventions.

### Drug Response:
Interactions with certain drugs like erythromycin, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, etc., can lead to adverse drug reactions. 

### Related Papers:

- Subject: Developmental expression and genetic regulation of CYP3A7: role of the hepatic nuclear factor 3gamma site in the CYP3A7 promoter.
  - Author: Wang H, Faucette S, Sueyoshi T, Moore R, Ferguson S, Negishi M, LeCluyse EL
  - DOI: 10.1124/jpet.104.080002

- Subject: Pathogenic variants in five CYP genes in 26 adults with steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome.
  - Author: Vivante A, Hildebrandt F
  - DOI: 10.1186/s13023-018-0825-9

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**