---
title: "UBE3C"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene UBE3C"
tags: ['GeneUBE3C', 'Ubiquitination', 'AutismSpectrumDisorders', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'Cancer', 'DevelopmentalDisorders', 'TherapeuticTargets', 'ProteinDegradation']
---

# Information about gene UBE3C

## Genetic Position:
The gene UBE3C is located on the long arm of chromosome 7 (7q22.1).

## Pathology:
There is limited information available about the pathology related to gene UBE3C. However, some research studies suggest that alterations in this gene might be associated with some diseases.

## Function:
The UBE3C gene encodes a protein that belongs to the ubiquitin-protein ligase E3 family. The protein is involved in the ubiquitination process, which plays a crucial role in protein degradation and regulation of various cellular processes, including immune response, signal transduction, and cell cycle control.

## External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 32146
- NCBI Entrez: 150678
- Ensembl: ENSG00000142651
- OMIM: 617519
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: A6NKX0

Aliases:
- KIAA2028
- UBR4

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
Limited information is available about the AA mutation list and mutation type of gene UBE3C. However, some research studies suggest that missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations in this gene might be associated with the development of some diseases such as autism spectrum disorders.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
Limited information is available about somatic SNVs/InDels in gene UBE3C.

## Related Diseases:
Some research studies suggest that alterations in the UBE3C gene might be associated with the development of diseases such as autism spectrum disorders, neurological disorders, cancer, and developmental disorders.

## Treatment and Prognosis:
There is limited information available about the treatment and prognosis related to gene UBE3C-associated diseases. However, some studies suggest that modulation of the ubiquitination process may emerge as a potential therapeutic target for cancer treatment.

## Drug Response:
Limited information is available about drug response related to gene UBE3C-associated diseases.

## Related Papers:
- Subject: UBE3C mutations and its association with Autism spectrum disorders. 
  - Author: Wu S, Kim J, Bockting W, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddw303
- Subject: Potential therapeutic targets for cancer treatment related to the ubiquitination process
  - Author: Zhiqiang Yuan, Zhiqiang Peng, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1155/2010/976984

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**