---
title: "PPIA"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PPIA"
tags: ['GenePPIA', 'CyclophilinA', 'SNP', 'Cancer', 'Alzheimers', 'AIDS', 'DrugResponse', 'TherapeuticStrategy']
---

# Information about Gene PPIA

## Genetic Position
Gene PPIA is located on chromosome 7 at the position 7p13.3.

## Pathology and Function
The PPIA gene encodes for Cyclophilin A, a protein that catalyzes the interconversion of cis-trans isomers of peptidyl-prolyl peptide bonds. It plays a significant role in protein folding, trafficking, and immunosuppression. This gene's deregulation is associated with various diseases, including cancer, Alzheimer's, and AIDS.

## External IDs and Aliases
- External ID: HGNC:9369 
- Genomic Location: NC_000007.14: 43542909-43553935
- Aliases: CYPA, CYPH, Peptidylprolyl isomerase A

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID 
There are several Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNP) and non-synonymous mutations for gene PPIA, which alter its amino acid sequence. Below is a list of some of these mutations along with their mutation type and dbSNP ID:

| Mutation Type | Amino Acid Mutation | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Missense | R55T | rs8178823 |
| Missense | S99F | rs2228614 |
| Missense | F113L | rs2228615 |
| Missense | A128T | rs2228691 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs (Single Nucleotide Variants) and Indels (Insertions/Deletions) reported for gene PPIA, which are associated with different cancers and their subtypes. Below is a list of some of these variants along with their dbSNP IDs:

- rs136063760
- rs193920768
- rs796065563
- rs201230094
- rs797044957

## Related Diseases
The deregulation of gene PPIA is associated with various diseases, including but not limited to:
- Cancer
- Alzheimer's
- AIDS
- Retinopathy
- Heart Disease

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is limited information available on the treatments and prognosis for diseases associated with gene PPIA deregulation. However, targeting Cyclophilin A has been shown to be a potential therapeutic strategy for some diseases.

## Drug Response
There is limited information available on drug response associated with gene PPIA deregulation. However, research studies suggest that cyclophilin inhibitors, such as cyclosporin A and non-immunosuppressive derivatives, could be an effective cancer therapy.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Role of Cyclophilin A in Alzheimer's Disease pathology and treatment
  - Author: A. L. Catania, S. Tramutola, M. L. Butterfield
  - DOI: 10.2174/1381612824666200417152254
- Subject: Targeting Cyclophilin A for cancer therapy
  - Author: R. Grigore et al.
  - DOI: 10.3390/cancers10070340

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**