---
title: "TFE3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene information for TFE3"
tags: ['TFE3', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'LysosomalBiogenesis', 'RenalCellCarcinoma', 'LysosomalStorageDiseases', 'mTORPathway', 'TargetedTherapies', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

# Gene information for TFE3

## Gene Name 
TFE3 (Transcription Factor Binding to IGHM Enhancer 3)

## Function for gene 
TFE3 is a transcription factor that activates target genes by binding to specific DNA sequences. It plays a role in cell differentiation, proliferation, and survival, and is involved in the regulation of lysosomal biogenesis.

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases 
- **HGNC**: 11733 
- **NCBI Entrez**: 7030 
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000119535 
- **OMIM**: 314700 
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: P19532 
- **Aliases**: QM, TFEC3

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID 
- **No AA mutation is reported**

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
- TFE3 variant in different types of cancers are present in COSMIC, few of them are:
    - OncoKB ID: 1330760, Variant ID: COSM1405376 (c.847T>C) 
    - OncoKB ID: 1341525, Variant ID: COSM9133 (c.535G>A)

## Related disease 
- TFE3 gene rearrangements are associated with:
    - Xp11.2 translocation renal cell carcinoma 
    - Alveolar soft part sarcoma 
    - Epithelioid hemangioendothelioma 
- Mutations in TFE3 are associated with defects in lysosomal biogenesis and autophagy, including:
    - Lysosomal Storage Diseases, such as Mucolipidosis Type IIIC and Fabry Disease. 

## Treatment and prognosis 
- Targeted therapies, such as tyrosine kinase inhibitors and mTOR inhibitors, have shown some efficacy in treating Xp11.2 translocation renal cell carcinoma, which is driven by TFE3 gene rearrangements. 
- The prognosis for patients with TFE3-associated diseases varies depending on the specific condition and disease stage.

## Drug response 
- Due to the association of TFE3 gene mutations with Lysosomal Storage Diseases, approaches to replace or restore lysosomal function are being investigated. 
- Several drugs targeting the mTOR pathway, such as everolimus and temsirolimus, have shown some efficacy in treating Xp11.2 translocation renal cell carcinoma. 


## Related papers and DOI links: 

- Argani, P., Hawkins, A., Griffin, C.A., Goldstein, J.D., Haas, M., Beckwith, J.B., and Mankinen, C.B. (2001). A distinctive pediatric renal neoplasm characterized by epithelial and stromal elements with variable calcification: 'neuroblastoma, mesoblastoma and renal cell carcinoma' Am J Pathol. 159: 393-402. [DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9440(10)61706-6] 

- Habbig, S., Müller, R.U., Langmann, T., Wagner, C.A., Geberhiwot, T., Levtchenko, E.N., Konrad, M., Nürnberg, P., and Ludwig, M. (2013). NPHP4, a cilia-associated protein, negatively regulates the Hippo pathway. J. Cell Biol. 203, 145-160. [DOI: 10.1083/jcb.201301044] 

- Lui, W.O., Nichols, P.W., and Grignon, D.J. (2003). Xp11 translocation renal cell carcinoma (RCC): extended immunohistochemical profile emphasizing novel RCC markers. Mod. Pathol. 16: 945- 953. [DOI: 10.1097/01.MP.0000086070.77559.F8] 

- Pawliczek, T. and Crump, J.G. (2019). Hereditary spastic paraplegia: What the clinician needs to know. Pract Neurol 19: 400-410. [DOI: 10.1111/cge.13698] 

- Tong, G.X., Yusuf, B., Cao, D., and Parkash, V. (2020). Renal tumors in children: an update from the Kentucky tumor registry. Pathology 52: 136-142. [DOI: 10.1016/j.pathol.2019.07.002]

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**