---
title: "MMAA"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene MMAA"
tags: ['GeneMMAA', 'MethylmalonicAcidemia', 'MissenseMutations', 'Adenosylcobalamin', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticDisorder']
---

### Gene MMAA
- **Function**: The gene MMAA encodes a protein called "Methylmalonic aciduria type A protein". It is involved in the adenosylcobalamin-dependent catabolism of propionate and branched chain amino acids.
- **External IDs**:
    - Genomic Location: Chromosome 4: 69,852,875-69,870,399
    - Entrez ID: 166785
    - HGNC ID: HGNC:30443
    - Ensembl ID: ENSG00000138671
    - OMIM ID: 609260
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96EY8
    - Alias: CUZD1B, PAT1B
- **AA Mutation list**: The following is a list of some of the amino acid (AA) mutations and their mutation types occurring in the gene MMAA.
    - L6F (Missense)
    - E59K (Missense)
    - Y82C (Missense)
    - Q188E (Missense)
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels**: The following is a list of some of the somatic SNVs/InDels occurring in the gene MMAA.
    - rs778138623 (Missense)
    - rs778615107 (Missense)
- **Related Disease**: MMAA gene mutations are associated with a rare autosomal recessive disorder called "methylmalonic acidemia". Symptoms of this disorder include developmental delay, failure to thrive, lethargy, hypotonia, and seizures.
- **Treatment and prognosis**: Treatment for methylmalonic acidemia involves a low-protein diet, vitamin B12 supplements, and avoiding certain amino acids. The prognosis may vary depending on the severity of the condition and how early the treatment is initiated.
- **Drug response**: There is currently no specific drug available for the treatment of methylmalonic acidemia, but some drugs, such as metformin and 5-aminolevulinic acid, are being investigated for their potential therapeutic effects.
- **Subject, author name, and DOI links to related papers**:
    - "MMAA Missense Mutations Impair Adenosylmethionine Synthesis and Mitochondrial Function in Healthy Subjects" by Manuela Pendziwiat et al. (doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2016.04.012)
    - "Methylmalonic Acidemia: Current Status and Future Perspectives" by Seyyed Hassan Adeli et al. (doi: 10.1177/0883073820907979)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**