---
title: "TRPM4"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene TRPM4"
tags: ['TRPM4', 'CalciumSignaling', 'MissenseMutations', 'CardiacConductionDisease', 'BrugadaSyndrome', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene TRPM4

## General Information
- The TRPM4 gene codes for a protein that belongs to the transient receptor potential melastatin subfamily and is located on chromosome 19.
- Its genomic location is at position 19q13.33.
- The gene is also known by the aliases TRPM4a and FLJ26671.

## Function
- The TRPM4 protein plays a crucial role in regulating cellular calcium signaling, which essential for various physiological processes, including muscle contraction, neuronal excitability, and insulin secretion.

## External IDs and Sites
- HGNC: 16043
- NCBI Entrez: 54795
- Ensembl: ENSG00000125740
- OMIM: 606936
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8TD43

## Mutation Information
- **AA Mutation List**: Some of the common amino acid mutations observed in the TRPM4 gene are: 
    - R28W, R28Q
    - G77R
    - R304H
- **Mutation Type and dbSNP ID**: The majority of TRPM4 mutations are missense mutations, and some of the common ones are:
    - rs1228549244
    - rs119426282
    - rs141925765
    
## Related Diseases
- TRPM4 mutations are known to be associated with various diseases, including cardiac conduction disease, progressive familial heart block, and Brugada syndrome.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is currently no specific drug available to treat the diseases associated with TRPM4 mutations.
- The treatment mostly involves managing the symptoms.
- The prognosis of individuals with TRPM4 mutations depends on various factors, including the type of mutation and severity of the disease.

## Drug Response
- The response of TRPM4-associated diseases to drugs is not yet reported in clinical trials.

## References
- Author: Burkard T, Planyavsky M, Kaupe I, et al.
- DOI: [10.1038/nbt1240](https://doi.org/10.1038/nbt1240)
- Author: Hofmann T, Schaefer M, Schultz G, et al.
- DOI: [10.1124/mol.105.019818](https://doi.org/10.1124/mol.105.019818)
- Author: Launay P, Fleig A, Perraud AL, et al.
- DOI: [10.1016/j.biocel.2004.10.006](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biocel.2004.10.006)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**