---
title: "MLPH"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene MLPH"
tags: ['GeneMLPH', 'OculocutaneousAlbinism', 'Melanophilin', 'Pigmentation', 'GeneticMutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene MLPH

## Genetic Position

The MLPH gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 2, specifically at the position 2q37.1.

## Pathology

Mutations in the MLPH gene have been linked to oculocutaneous albinism type 4 (OCA4), a rare genetic disorder characterized by a lack of pigmentation in the eyes, skin, and hair. 

## Function

The MLPH gene encodes a protein called melanophilin, which is involved in the transport and delivery of melanosomes (pigment-containing organelles) to melanocytes (pigment-producing cells) in the skin, hair, and eyes. 

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 7119
- NCBI Entrez: 79083
- Ensembl: ENSG00000140836
- OMIM: 606526
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NRG9
- Aliases: MGC72550, MYO7AIP1, dilute-lethal protein homolog

## AA Mutation List, Mutation Type, and dbSNP ID

- p.Leu14_Pro15dup, duplication, rs35692401
- p.Glu287Lys, missense, rs200995554
- p.Ala213Thr, missense, rs121912527
- p.Asn102Asp, missense, rs121912526
- p.Arg35His, missense, rs121912525

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There is no record of somatic SNVs or InDels in the MLPH gene in the dbSNP database.

## Related Diseases

Mutations in the MLPH gene have been linked solely to oculocutaneous albinism type 4 (OCA4).

## Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no cure for OCA4. Treatment mainly involves managing symptoms, such as protecting the skin and eyes from UV light. The prognosis for individuals with OCA4 varies depending on the degree of pigmentation loss and associated complications.

## Drug Response

There is no specific drug that can treat OCA4 directly. However, individuals with OCA4 may benefit from medications that address complications such as visual impairments.

## Related Papers

- Li, Jing, et al. "A homozygous missense variant in SLC38A8 encoding a sodium-amino acid transporter is associated with autosomal recessive intellectual disability." European Journal of Human Genetics volume 26, pages1294–1301 (2018). [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41431-018-0171-4)
- Wei, A. H., & Kim, H. G. (2018). Clinical spectrum, genetic heterogeneity, and pathophysiology of Oculocutaneous Albinism (OCA). Journal of Dermatological Science, 89(2), 142–151. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jdermsci.2017.10.011)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**