---
title: "ACADL"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about ACADL Gene"
tags: ['ACADL', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticDisorders', 'Mutation', 'DiseaseManagement', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about ACADL Gene

## Genetic Position and Pathology

The ACADL gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 2 at the position 22.1. The ACADL gene is associated with multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, which is a rare genetic disorder characterized by the reduced ability to breakdown certain fats and convert them into energy. This disorder can lead to a variety of symptoms such as developmental delays, weak muscle tone, poor feeding, and liver problems.

## Function

The ACADL gene provides instructions for making a protein called acyl-CoA dehydrogenase long chain. This protein helps to break down long-chain fatty acids to convert them into energy utilized by the body.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC ID: 119
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 36
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000163558
- OMIM ID: 600301
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P28330
- Other aliases: ACAD6, ACADL1, LCACD, ACADL2.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

The following table summarises the details for some of the clinically relevant mutations listed in the HGMD 
database and their associations with diseases:


| Mutation               | Mutation Type | Disease             | dbSNP ID  |
|------------------------|--------------------------|-----------------------------|------------------|
| c.1528G>C             | Missense      | Long chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency | rs121439410|
| c.164C>A               | Missense     | Long chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency | rs121434533 |
| c.1528G>C         | Missense        | Long chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency | rs121439410 |
| c.199T>G           | Synonymous | Long chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency | rs6997266 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

Currently, there are no known somatic mutations in the ACADL gene listed in the dbSNP database.

## Related Disease

Mutations in the ACADL gene have been associated with conditions such as long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (LCAD) and long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (LCHAD). These conditions are also associated with gene mutations in other enzymes involved in fat metabolism.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no known treatment or cure for ACADL or LCAD deficiency. Patients are managed with dietary management, and supportive care measures aimed at addressing symptoms. The patient's prognosis depends on the severity of the condition and how early it is diagnosed.

## Drug Response

Currently, there are no drugs specifically targeted at treating ACADL deficiency.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency
  - Author(s): David E. Kompare and Kimiyo M. Raymond.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2002.12.003

- Subject: Spectrum of ACADVL Mutations in Spanish Patients with
    Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency: Identification of Novel Variants and
    Evidence of Mutational Hot Spots
  - Author(s): Cristina Jou, Raquel García Silva, Lourdes Vilaseca et al.
  - DOI: 10.1089/gtmb.2019.0197

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**