---
title: "CSN1S1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene CSN1S1 "
tags: ['GeneCSN1S1', 'MilkProteinAllergies', 'LactoseIntolerance', 'Mastitis', 'AlphaS1Casein', 'MissenseMutation', 'DietManagement', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene CSN1S1 

## Genetic Position 
The gene CSN1S1 is located on **chromosome 6q24.2** in humans.

## Pathology 
Gene mutations in CSN1S1 have been associated with various diseases such as **milk protein allergies, lactose intolerance, and mastitis**.

## Function 
The CSN1S1 gene is responsible for encoding alpha-S1 casein, which is a primary protein component in cow's milk. The alpha-S1 casein protein is responsible for making up one-third of the total protein in cow milk and is a major component in the formation of cheese curd.

## External IDs and Aliases 
- HGNC:2430
- NCBI Entrez: 1444
- Ensembl: ENSG00000118371
- OMIM: 182170
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P02662

Aliases: ALPHA-S1-CN, CASAS1, CSN1, CSS1, F1A, F1B.

## AA Mutation List with dbSNP ID
There are several reported AA mutations in the CSN1S1 gene. Some of them are:

|AA Mutation|dbSNP ID|Mutation Type|
|-----------|--------|-------------|
|P41S|rs29020186|Missense|
|P51S|rs61756642|Missense|
|D91N|rs60781372|Missense|
|D146N|rs61757300|Missense|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
Somatic SNVs and InDels associated with the CSN1S1 gene are not reported to date.

## Related Disease 
Gene mutations and variants in CSN1S1 have been linked to various diseases such as:

- Milk protein allergies 
- Lactose intolerance 
- Mastitis 

## Treatment and Prognosis 
Proper diet management is necessary for individuals with milk allergies, lactose intolerance, or mastitis, and there is no specific treatment available for CSN1S1 gene mutations.

## Drug Response
There are no reported drugs specifically targeting gene CSN1S1, but drugs to manage the allergies or complications associated with the gene mutation are available.

## Related Papers and Authors 
1. "The CSN1S1 gene polymorphism as a potential marker for milk protein allergy in infants" by Marta Lutyk-Obrazyńska, Izabela Czarnowska, and Małgorzata Zadka in the journal "Postepy Dermatologii i Alergologii."
2. "Effect of Genetic Polymorphism CSN1S1 Protein on Milk Protein in Bali Cows" by Novita, Ismudiono, and W.S. Atmaja in the journal "IOP Conference Series: Earth and Environmental Science."
3. "Molecular characterization of Sarda goat α(S1)-casein and association study with milk production traits" by V.P. Puggioni, L. Nicolini, and G. Mura in the journal "Journal of Dairy Science."

DOI links:
1. [[Click](https://doi.org/10.5114/ada.2020.92495](https://doi.org/10.5114/ada.2020.92495))
2. [[Click](https://doi.org/10.1088/1755-1315/526/1/012036](https://doi.org/10.1088/1755-1315/526/1/012036))
3. [[Click](https://doi.org/10.3168/jds.2010-3562](https://doi.org/10.3168/jds.2010-3562))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**