---
title: "HTR3A"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: HTR3A"
tags: ['HTR3A', '5-HT3receptor', 'MissenseMutation', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'DrugResponse', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Neuroscience']
---

# Gene: HTR3A

## Overview:
- **Function:** The HTR3A gene encodes a subunit of the 5-HT3 receptor, which is a member of the Cys-loop superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels. These receptors are primarily found in the central and peripheral nervous systems and are involved in various physiological and pathological processes, including nausea and vomiting, anxiety, depression, and pain perception.
- **Aliases:** HTR3, 5-HT3R, SLC9A3R1
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 11: 47,868,576 - 47,874,704

## External IDs:
- **HGNC:** 5175
- **NCBI Entrez:** 3359
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000138379
- **OMIM:** 182138
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** P46098

## Variations:
- **AA Mutation List:** Several amino acid substitutions have been reported in the HTR3A gene, which are associated with different diseases. These include:
    - Ser72Asn (rs1150226)
    - Ala82Ser (rs1062613)
    - Val117Ile (rs1176713)
    - Thr220Ala (rs1150229)
- **Mutation Type:** Missense
- **dbSNP ID:** rs1150226, rs1062613, rs1176713, rs1150229
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No information available at this time.

## Related Diseases:
- HTR3A gene mutations have been associated with several diseases, including:
    - Irritable bowel syndrome
    - Schizophrenia
    - Alcohol dependence
    - Anxiety disorders

## Treatment and Prognosis:
- The treatment and prognosis of HTR3A-associated diseases depend on the specific disease and the severity of symptoms. Treatment options may include medication, psychotherapy, or a combination of both. The prognosis varies from person to person and depends on various factors such as the disease progression, age, and overall health.

## Drug Response:
- Various drugs that target the 5-HT3 receptor, such as ondansetron and granisetron, have been approved for the treatment of nausea and vomiting associated with chemotherapy and/or surgery.

## Related Papers:
- Wylie, K. P., Rojas, D. C., Ross, R. G., & Hunter, S. K. (2014). HTR3A gene variants in first-episode schizophrenia and cannabis-induced psychotic disorder. The Journal of neuropsychiatry and clinical neurosciences, 26(1), 57–63. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1176/appi.neuropsych.13030040)
- Kalivas, P. W., Volkow, N. D., & Seamans, J. (2005). Unmanageable motivation in addiction: a pathology in prefrontal-accumbens glutamate transmission. Neuron, 45(5), 647–650. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2005.02.005)
- Suk, K. (2006). Serotonin receptors and their ligands in drug addiction. Neuropsychopharmacology, 31(1), 187–197. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.npp.1300861)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**