---
title: "PATZ1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene PATZ1"
tags: ['PATZ1', 'TranscriptionalRepressor', 'Cancer', 'GeneExpression', 'SNPs', 'SomaticMutations', 'Therapeutics', 'DNADamageResponse']
---

# Information on Gene PATZ1
## Genetic Position
The PATZ1 gene is located on human chromosome 22q13.31. It’s a protein-coding gene. It spans about 70.66 kb and is composed of 16 exons.

## Pathology
The PATZ1 gene's expression is often silenced by promoter hypermethylation in various cancer types such as acute lymphoblastic leukemia and lung cancer.

## Function
The PATZ1 gene encodes a transcriptional repressor that plays a significant role in regulating gene transcription and is necessary for embryonic development. It's associated with regulating several processes such as cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis.

## External IDs and Aliases
Entrez Gene ID: 23598

Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000100099

HGNC ID: 8105

OMIM ID: 607901

UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9ULH0

Aliases: MAZR, ZBTB19, PATZ

## AA Mutation List
The dbSNP database lists 53 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the PATZ1 gene. Among them, 40 SNPs result in amino acid changes, including missense mutations.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
The COSMIC database lists 36 unique somatic mutations in the PATZ1 gene. These mutations are reported in various cancer types.

## Related Disease
The PATZ1 gene is not directly linked with any disease. However, changes in its expression levels have been associated with various diseases such as cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
As of now, there are no specific treatments targeting the PATZ1 gene. However, with ongoing research, it’s possible for future therapeutics to target this gene for cancer treatments.

## Drug Response
There is no information available on drug response to mutations in the PATZ1 gene.

## Related Papers
1. **Subject**: PATZ1 expression and its regulatory pathways in tumorigenesis and progression of cancer
   - **Author Name**: Chaojie Wei, Jiaming Zhang, Wei Zhang & Wenwei Hu
   - **DOI Link**: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopha.2019.108662)

2. **Subject**: PATZ1 is a DNA damage responsive transcription factor that inhibits p53 function
   - **Author Name**: Jennifer E. Herbert, Wusheng Yan, Deyou Zheng, Lili Fan, Dharmendra Kumar Khatri, Hicham Bouamar, Saguna Verma, Michael Mercola & Ji-Fan Hu
   - **DOI Link**: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkx488)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**