---
title: "SPTLC1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# **Gene: SPTLC1**"
tags: ['SPTLC1', 'Neuropathies', 'CeramideBiosynthesis', 'HSAN1', 'ALS', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# **Gene: SPTLC1**

## **Genetic Position**
* SPTLC1 is located on the long arm of chromosome 9 (9q22.31).

## **Pathology**
* Mutations in the SPTLC1 gene have been associated with various neuropathies, including hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type 1 (HSAN1) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).

## **Function**
* SPTLC1 encodes a subunit of the serine palmitoyltransferase enzyme which is responsible for the initial step of ceramide biosynthesis.

## **External IDs and Aliases**
* HGNC: 11268
* NCBI Entrez: 10558
* Ensembl: ENSG00000137107
* OMIM: 605712
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P61026
* Aliases: HSAN1, LCB1, and SPT1

## **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID**
* p.Ala352Val (rs28937576)
* p.Ala352Thr (rs7751024)
* p.Cys133Phe (rs144181373)

## **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**
* There are currently no reported somatic mutations in the SPTLC1 gene.

## **Related Diseases**
* Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy Type 1 (HSAN1)
* Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS)

## **Treatment and Prognosis**
* There is no cure for HSAN1 and ALS, but symptomatic treatments can help manage the symptoms.

## **Drug Response**
* There is limited information available on drug response specifically related to SPTLC1 mutations.

## **References**
1. Garofalo K, Penno A, Schmidt BP, Lee HJ, Frosch MP, von Eckardstein A, Brown RH Jr, Hornemann T, Eichler FS. Oral L-serine supplementation reduces production of neurotoxic deoxysphingolipids in mice and humans with hereditary sensory autonomic neuropathy type 1. J Clin Invest. 2011 Jul;121(7):4735-45.
2. Bejaoui K, Wu C, Scheffler MD, Haan G, Ashby P, Wu L, de Jong P, Brown RH Jr. SPTLC1 is mutated in hereditary sensory neuropathy, type 1. Nat Genet. 2001 Jul;28(3): 251-4.
3. Li Y, Xu Y, Ju W, Hao H, Wang J, Mu J, Chen X, Ma Q, Li S, Yan J, Xu L, Liu Y. Whole exome sequencing identifies a novel SPTLC1 mutation in a Chinese family with hereditary sensory autonomic neuropathy type I. BMC Med Genet. 2018 Oct 30; 19(1):182.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**