---
title: "ALX4"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene ALX4"
tags: ['ALX4', 'Craniosynostosis', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'Mutation', 'FrontonasalDysplasia', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'Surgery', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene ALX4

## Genetic Position
The gene ALX4 is located on chromosome 11 at the position q24.3. It spans a genomic region of approximately 48.6 kilobases and is composed of 7 exons.

## Pathology
The mutations in the ALX4 gene are known to cause various types of craniosynostosis, which is a condition characterized by the premature fusion of one or more of the skull bones. These mutations may also result in abnormalities associated with facial and skull development, such as hypertelorism and midface hypoplasia.

## Function for Gene
The ALX4 gene encodes a transcription factor, which plays an important role in the development and differentiation of the craniofacial structures.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 473 
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 60529
- Ensembl: ENSG00000181789 
- OMIM: 605420 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H160

Aliases:
- Aristaless-like homeobox 4 
- ALX Homeoprotein 4 

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
ALX4 has various AA mutations that are associated with diseases, some of which are listed below along with their mutation types and dbSNP IDs:  

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|--------|--------|--------|
|Phe285Leu|Missense|rs267606870|
|Gly346Arg|Missense|rs121918066|
|Leu344Profs*32|Frameshift|rs764363528|
|Arg94Trp|Missense|rs137854267|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels associated with the ALX4 gene in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
The mutations in the ALX4 gene have been linked to a number of diseases, including:
- Craniosynostosis 4, with or without cleft palate (OMIM# 600775)
- Frontonasal Dysplasia 2 (OMIM# 613451)

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are no specific treatments for conditions caused by ALX4 mutations. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive, with surgery often being required to correct craniosynostosis. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the condition and associated complications.

## Drug Response
There is currently no drug available that specifically targets the mutations in the ALX4 gene.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Craniosynostosis-Associated Mutations in the Homeodomain of MSX2 Interfere with DNA Binding, Protein Stability, and Transcriptional Activation
- Author(s): Yang et al.
- DOI: 10.1128/MCB.23.11.3807-3819.2003

- Subject: Novel ALX4 Mutation in a Patient with Frontonasal Dysplasia
- Author(s): Castillejo et al.
- DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.32956

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**