---
title: "IQCB1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene IQCB1"
tags: ['IQCB1', 'LeberCongenitalAmaurosis', 'RetinitisPigmentosa', 'ConeRodDystrophy', 'GeneTherapy', 'PhotoreceptorCells', 'CiliaryAxoneme', 'MissenseMutation']
---

# Gene IQCB1

## General Information
- This gene is also known as IQ domain-containing protein B1.
- It is located on chromosome 3q21.1.
- The official symbol for the gene is IQCB1.

## Function
- This gene encodes a ciliary protein that is necessary for the assembly and maintenance of the outer segment of photoreceptor cells in the retina
- The protein is involved in the organization of the microtubule-based ciliary axoneme.
- It has also been implicated in the transport of cargo to the ciliary membrane.
- Mutation in this gene causes autosomal recessive Leber congenital amaurosis.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 5975 
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 9644 
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000145113 
- OMIM ID: 609237 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9P2K2
- Alias: LCA5, IQCB1 

## Mutation Information
- AA Mutation list:
    - p.Leu602Gln 
    - p.Leu261fs 
    - p.Cys371fs ..
    
- Mutation type: Missense, Frameshift, Splice site
- dbSNP IDs:
    - rs137853285 
    - rs137853284 
    - rs869320852 

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- There are currently no known somatic mutations reported for this gene.

## Related Diseases
- Autosomal recessive Leber congenital amaurosis
- Retinitis Pigmentosa
- Cone-rod dystrophy

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is currently no cure for IQCB1-associated diseases.
- Treatment is generally supportive and aims to slow disease progression.
- For patients with autosomal recessive Leber congenital amaurosis, gene therapy is being explored as a potential treatment option.

## Drug Response
- There is currently no known drug response related to mutations in this gene.

## Relevant Papers
- Fadaie et al., 2018. IQCB1 mutations in patients with leber congenital amaurosis. Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine. 6(4): 631-645. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/mgg3.417)
- Wang et al., 2016. Comprehensive molecular diagnosis of a large Chinese Leber congenital amaurosis cohort. Investigative Ophthalmology & Visual Science. 57(13): 5621-9. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1167/iovs.16-19428)
- Koenekoop, R.K., et al., 2012. Leber congenital amaurosis: differential diagnosis, pathogenesis, and therapy. Ophthalmology Clinics. 25(1): 61-8. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ohc.2011.09.002)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**