---
title: "KLF11"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene KLF11"
tags: ['GeneKLF11', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'Diabetes', 'MODY7', 'InsulinSecretion', 'GeneticVariants', 'BloodGlucoseManagement', 'Metformin']
---

# Information about Gene KLF11

## Genetic Position:
- Gene: KLF11 (Krüppel-like factor 11)
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 2q13
- Aliases: TIEG2, Transforming growth factor Beta-inducible early gene 2 protein

## Function for Gene:
- KLF11 belongs to the Krüppel-like family of transcription factors and plays a crucial role in the regulation of gene expression in pancreatic beta-cells.
- It is involved in the regulation of glucose homeostasis and insulin secretion.

## External IDs:
- HGNC: 6349
- NCBI Entrez: 8462
- Ensembl: ENSG00000123374
- OMIM: 603301
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y5W3

## Mutations:
- The KLF11 gene is associated with several genetic variants.
- AA Mutation List: 
   - rs2274355 (Gly7Ser)
- Mutation Type: Missense
- dbSNP ID: rs2274355

## Related Diseases:
- Genetic variants in KLF11 have been associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes.
- KLF11 mutations have also been associated with maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY7), a group of monogenic forms of diabetes mellitus caused by mutations in genes that regulate pancreatic β-cell function.

## Treatment and Prognosis:
- Treatment for diabetes caused by KLF11 mutations is aimed at the management of blood glucose levels and may involve lifestyle changes and medications such as insulin therapy.
- The prognosis for individuals with KLF11 mutations is generally good with appropriate management of the condition.

## Drug Response:
- There is currently no specific drug that has been developed to target KLF11 mutations.
- However, individuals with diabetes caused by KLF11 mutations may respond to routine diabetes medications such as metformin and insulin.

## Related Papers:
- Subject: KLF11 mutations in maturity-onset diabetes of the young
- Author: Wang X, Chen M, Hua Y, Chen J, Xu A, Lin X.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2017.11.006

- Subject: Association between KLF11 polymorphisms and type 2 diabetes susceptibility: a meta-analysis in the Chinese population
- Author: Li G, Liu D, Zhang Y, Liu Y, Zhao L.
- DOI: 10.1080/14728222.2016.1217942

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**