---
title: "APOL1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene APOL1"
tags: ['APOL1', 'KidneyDisease', 'Hypertension', 'FocalSegmentalGlomerulosclerosis', 'InnateImmunity', 'GeneticMutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis']
---

## Information about gene APOL1

### Genetic position, pathology, and function
The APOL1 gene is located on chromosome 22 and is associated with pathological conditions such as hypertension-attributed nephropathy, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, and HIV-associated nephropathy. The APOL1 gene is known to play a role in the innate immunity against trypanosomes. 

### Function for gene
The APOL1 gene encodes for APOL1 protein, which forms a pore-like structure in the membrane of trypanosomes leading to cell lysis and ultimately death of the pathogen.

### External IDs and Genomic location
- HGNC ID: HGNC:27612 
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000177133
- NCBI Entrez ID: 8542
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 22q13.3
- Aliases: APOL, APOL-I, APOL1alpha, h-apoL

### AA mutation list and Mutation type with dbSNP ID
- G1 and G2 variants of APOL1 have been identified as risk alleles for focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and hypertension-attributed nephropathy in individuals of African ancestry.
- G1: rs73885319 (S342G), rs60910145 (I384 M)
- G2: rs71785313 (N388del)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no somatic SNVs/InDels reported for APOL1.

### Related disease
APOL1 gene mutations have been associated with various kidney diseases, such as hypertension-attributed nephropathy, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, and HIV-associated nephropathy. 

### Treatment and prognosis
Currently, the treatment of APOL1 related kidney diseases is limited to supportive care such as blood pressure control, proteinuria management, and renal replacement therapy. The prognosis for individuals with APOL1 associated kidney disease varies depending on the severity and stage of the disease.

### Drug response
There is no specific drug that targets APOL1 gene mutations directly. However, various drugs such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) can be used to manage hypertension in individuals with APOL1 associated kidney disease.

### Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers
- Genovese et al. 2010. Association of trypanolytic ApoL1 variants with kidney disease in African Americans.  [DOI: 10.1038/ng.856]( [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.856)
- Tzur et al. 2010. Missense mutations in the APOL1 gene are highly associated with end-stage kidney disease risk previously attributed to the MYH9 gene. [DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddq647]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/hmg/ddq647)
- Nichols et al. 2014. APOL1 Genotype and Kidney Transplantation Outcomes From Deceased African American Donors.  [DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2014.08.017]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1053/j.ajkd.2014.08.017)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**