---
title: "INS"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about the gene INS"
tags: ['INSgene', 'diabetes', 'insulin', 'mutations', 'treatment', 'prognosis', 'drugresponse', 'geneticposition']
---

# Information about the gene INS

## Genetic Position
The INS gene is located on chromosome 11 at position 2.1 (from base pair 21,503,532 to 21,513,496).

## Pathology
Mutations in the INS gene can cause several diseases associated with insulin metabolism. One of the most common disorders caused by these mutations is diabetes mellitus, which is a group of metabolic disorders characterized by high blood sugar levels. 

## Function
The INS gene provides instructions to make insulin, a hormone that regulates the amount of sugar (glucose) in the blood. Insulin is produced in the pancreas and helps cells to absorb glucose from the blood, which provides energy to the body. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 6091
- NCBI Entrez: 3630
- Ensembl: ENSG00000102225
- OMIM: 176730
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P01308

Aliases: IDDM2, ILPR, IRDN, MODY10

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- Cys96Tyr (rs121908002)
- Arg46Trp (rs121908001)
- Gly32Ser (rs76716131)
- Asp96Asn (rs121908004)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.73G>A (rs1057520865)
- c.125A>G (rs1057520864)
- c.136A>G (rs1057520863)
- c.138G>A (rs1057520862)

## Related Diseases
- Diabetes mellitus type 1
- Maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY)

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for diabetes mellitus, but it can be managed through insulin therapy, blood sugar monitoring, and lifestyle changes such as diet and exercise. The prognosis for individuals with diabetes varies depending on the severity of the disease and whether complications arise.

## Drug Response
Several drugs, including insulin and oral medications that help to lower blood sugar levels, are used to manage diabetes mellitus. However, the effectiveness of these drugs can vary depending on the individual and the type of diabetes.

## References
- Prudente S, Trischitta V. Gene therapy for monogenic diabetes: a clinical perspective. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2019;21 Suppl 2:49-58. doi: 10.1111/dom.13868
- INS Gene - Genetics Home Reference. U.S. National Library of Medicine. [Click](https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/INS.) Accessed May 4, 2021.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**