---
title: "ST5"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: ST5"
tags: ['ST5', 'TumorSuppressorGene', 'Cancer', 'CellularFunctions', 'DrugResistance', 'TherapeuticStrategies', 'Prognosis', 'Mutation']
---

## Gene: ST5

### Genetic position
ST5 is located on the long arm of chromosome 11 (11q24.2). It spans over 38309 base pairs (bp) of DNA.

### Pathology
The ST5 gene is associated with various cancer types. Studies suggest that ST5 functions as a tumor suppressor gene, and its inactivation or loss of function mutations can contribute to cancer development. 

### Function
ST5 encodes a scaffold protein that interacts with several intracellular proteins to regulate various cellular functions, including cell proliferation, apoptosis, and signal transduction pathways. 

### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- HGNC ID: 11432
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 6765
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000153229
- OMIM ID: 604364
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P58631
- Other aliases: DENN, Rip11

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
Several missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations have been identified in the ST5 gene. Some of the frequently observed mutations include:
- c.831G>A (p.Gly277Arg) rs201811366
- c.247T>C (p.Leu83Pro) rs786202401
- c.239_240insAC (p.Thr80fs) rs1554462045

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Several somatic mutations have been reported in ST5 gene in various cancer types. Some of the SNVs and InDels include:
- c.869-1G>A rs1554626520
- c.1203dupT (p.Ser402fs) rs199626876

### Related disease
The ST5 gene is associated with several human diseases, including cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, and immune system disorders.

### Treatment and prognosis
As ST5 is associated with cancer, several therapeutic strategies are being developed to target the altered functions of this gene. However, there is no standard therapy available for ST5-related diseases, and the prognosis varies depending on the type and stage of the disease.

### Drug response
Studies suggest that ST5 gene dysregulation is associated with drug resistance in various cancers. Targeting ST5 axis might help improve drug response in these cancer types.

### Related papers
- Author: O'Neill, ID et al. 
  - Title: "ST5: a target of a tumor suppressor pathway regulates EphA2-mediated cell migration and invasion."  
  - DOI: 10.1002/gcc.20471
- Author: Olagunju TO et al.
  - Title: "Evidence for association of ST5 polymorphisms in the regulated on activation normal T cell expressed and secreted expression in tuberculosis."  
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.cimid.2021.09.005

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**