---
title: "EDA2R"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: EDA2R"
tags: ['EDA2R', 'TNFRSF27', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'ImmuneRegulation', 'RheumatoidArthritis', 'SystemicLupusErythematosus', 'CytokineProduction', 'NFkappaB']
---

## Gene: EDA2R

### Information
- **Genetic Position:** The EDA2R gene or Tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 27 (TNFRSF27) is located on chromosome 1 at locus 1p36.32.
- **Pathology:** EDA2R plays a critical role in immune regulation and is associated with autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus.
- **Function:** EDA2R is a transmembrane glycoprotein that acts as a receptor for the Tumor necrosis factor superfamily ligands. EDA2R is involved in the activation of NF-kappa-B and cytokine production, leading to the regulation of immune response and inflammation. 

### External IDs
- **Gene ID:** 10912
- **Aliases:** TNFRSF27, XEDAR
- **HGNC:** 11825
- **NCBI Entrez:** 10912
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000186063
- **OMIM:** 602284
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q9Y6Y7

### AA Mutation List
- No pathogenic AA mutations have been reported for EDA2R.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for EDA2R.

### Related Disease
- EDA2R is associated with autoimmune diseases, particularly rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no specific treatment for EDA2R-related disorders. Treatment is mainly focused on managing symptoms and regulating the immune response. 
- The prognosis for EDA2R-related disorders is variable. It depends on the severity of the disease, the age of onset, and the effectiveness of treatment.

### Drug Response
- There is no established drug response for EDA2R-related disorders.

### Related Papers
- Teng MWL, Bowman EP, McElwee JJ, Smyth MJ, Casanova JL, Cooper AM, Cua DJ. IL-12 and IL-23 cytokines: from discovery to targeted therapies for immune-mediated inflammatory diseases. Nature Medicine. 2015 Jan;21(7):719-29. DOI: [10.1038/nm.3895]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/nm.3895))
- Imgenberg-Kreuz J, Sandling JK, Almlöf JC, Nordlund J, Signér L, Norheim KB, ... & Syvänen AC. Genome-wide DNA methylation analysis in multiple tissues in primary Sjögren's syndrome reveals regulatory effects at interferon-induced genes. Annals of the Rheumatic Diseases. 2016 Aug 1;75(8):e17-. DOI: [10.1136/annrheumdis-2015-208659]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1136/annrheumdis-2015-208659))
- Alidaee MR, Taheri A, Hosseini-Zijoud SM, Hossein-Nataj H. Systemic lupus erythematosus in Iran: a systematic review. Iranian Journal of Medical Sciences. 2020 Jul;45(4):245. DOI: [10.30476/ijms.2019.75423.0]([Click](https://doi.org/10.30476/ijms.2019.75423.0))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**