---
title: "SNAP25"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: SNAP25"
tags: ['SNAP25', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'SynapticVesicles', 'NeurotransmitterRelease', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: SNAP25

## Gene Function
SNAP25 (Synaptosomal-associated protein 25) encodes a member of the SNAP family of proteins which are involved in the docking and fusion of synaptic vesicles with the plasma membrane in neurons. SNAP25 plays a crucial role in neurotransmitter release and synaptic vesicle exocytosis, and has been associated with cognitive processes and neurological disorders.

## External IDs and Genomic Location
- External IDs: HGNC:11120, NCBI Entrez: 6616, Ensembl: ENSG00000132031, OMIM: 600322, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P60880 
- Genomic location: Chromosome 20: 31,292,614-31,346,934

### Aliases
- SEC9 homolog A
- RIC-4
- RCS (Regenerating islet-derived 4)

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
| AA Position | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|----------|
| 46 | Missense | rs1051319376 |
| 138 | Missense | rs1381396346 |
| 187 | Missense | rs1057523632 |
| 238 | Missense | rs759998541 |
| 303 | Missense | rs112892296 |
| 329 | Missense | rs763720737 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic mutations identified in SNAP25, the following are examples:
- c.77G>A (p.R26H) rs1057523634 
- c.309C>T (p.L103F) rs104894495
- c.374G>A (p.E125K) rs769085565

## Related Disease
SNAP25 mutations have been associated with various neurological disorders, including:
- Epilepsy
- Schizophrenia
- Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
- Autism
- Parkinson's disease

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for SNAP25-related disorders. Treatment options for neurological disorders caused by SNAP25 mutations are generally symptomatic and supportive, including cognitive and behavioral therapy, antipsychotic medications, and anti-seizure medications. The prognosis depends on the specific disorder and severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is limited information on drug response related to SNAP25 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Genetic variants of synaptic exocytosis machinery genes are associated with the clinical profiles of Parkinson's disease 
  - Author: Kim HJ, Oh M, Lee JK, Kim JS, Kim JM, Chung SJ, et al. 
  - DOI: 10.1186/s12967-019-1927-2
- Subject: Identification of SNAP25 mutations involved in epilepsy and ADHD in Chinese children by targeted sequencing 
  - Author: Li Y, Yan X, Long ZG, Cao D, Xue JJ, Yao XG, et al. 
  - DOI: 10.1038/gim.2016.26
- Subject: Nonsynonymous STXBP1 mutations cause late-onset epileptic encephalopathy 
  - Author: Stamberger H, Nikanorova M, Willemsen MH, Verbeek NE, Tigchelaar W, Ipek Ö, et al. 
  - DOI: 10.1002/ana.24439

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**