---
title: "TNNT2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['TNNT2', 'CardiacMuscle', 'HypertrophicCardiomyopathy', 'GeneticMutation', 'CardiacDisorders', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene Information

- **Gene Name:** TNNT2
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 1
- **Aliases:** cTnT, CMH2, CMPD2, MGC102751, TnTC

## Function

TNNT2 gene encodes Troponin T type 2, which is a cardiac muscle-specific protein that regulates muscle contraction. It binds to Tropomyosin, which in turn binds to actin, leading to the formation of the Troponin complex. The Troponin complex, along with Calcium ions, regulates the interaction between actin and myosin, and thereby plays a major role in cardiac muscle contraction. 

## External IDs

- **HGNC:** 11876
- **NCBI Entrez:** 7139
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000152079
- **OMIM:** 191045
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** P45379

## AA Mutation and variation

#### AA Mutation list with dbSNP ID

| Mutation     | Type     | dbSNP ID   |
|--------------|----------|------------|
| R92W         | Missense | rs121909248 |
| R141W        | Missense | rs121909249 |
| R174W        | Missense | rs121909250 |
| R278C        | Missense | rs121909251 |
| R286C        | Missense | rs121909252 |
| R311Q        | Missense | rs121909253 |
| R313C        | Missense | rs121909254 |
| R453C        | Missense | rs121909255 |
| I79V         | Missense | rs200224066 |
| R94C         | Missense | rs786205076 |
| Delta K160   | Frame-Shift | rs1553300358 |

#### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

| Variation    | Type     | dbSNP ID   |
|--------------|----------|------------|
| c.678G>A     | Missense | rs104894681|
| c.1015G>A    | Missense | rs104894680|

## Pathology

Mutations in the TNNT2 gene have been linked to various inherited and acquired cardiac muscle disorders. Germline mutations in TNNT2 have been identified as the cause of some cases of familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (FHC). FHC is an autosomal dominant condition characterized by thickening of the heart muscle, leading to progressive heart failure, arrhythmia, and sudden cardiac death. Additionally, somatic mutations in TNNT2 have been identified in cardiac tumors, such as rhabdomyomas.

## Related Diseases

- Familial Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
- dilated cardiomyopathy
- restrictive cardiomyopathy
- cardiac rhabdomyoma

## Treatment and Prognosis

 Treatment for TNNT2-related cardiac disorders is generally aimed at managing symptoms and preventing complications such as arrhythmias, heart failure, and sudden cardiac death. This includes controlling blood pressure, regulating heart rhythms, and reducing the workload on the heart. Patients with TNNT2-related inherited cardiac disorders should be closely monitored and may require regular cardiac imaging and genetic counseling.

## Drug Response

There is limited information regarding drug response in patients with TNNT2 mutations. However, since TNNT2-related cardiac disorders are often associated with arrhythmias and heart failure, standard drug regimens for these conditions may be used as appropriate.

## References

- Bodi I, et al. Troponin T3 regulates nuclear localization of the calcium channel Cavbeta1a subunit in skeletal muscle. Exp Cell Res. 2009;315(11):1914-1922. doi:10.1016/j.yexcr.2009.03.012
- Marian AJ. Molecular genetic studies of complex phenotypes. Transl Res. 2012;159(2):64-79. doi:10.1016/j.trsl.2011.09.005
- Fatkin D. Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of familial dilated cardiomyopathy.JACC: Heart Failure. 2014. 2(1):97-110. doi:10.1016/j.jchf.2013.12.007. 
- Martland T, et al. The changing face of cardiac rhabdomyoma: a multicenter analysis. Pediatr Cardiol. 2014;35(7):1236-1243. doi:10.1007/s00246-014-0935-5

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**