---
title: "CRYBB1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information: CRYBB1"
tags: ['CRYBB1', 'CongenitalCataracts', 'BetaCrystallin', 'LensProtein', 'MissenseMutation', 'Surgery', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticDisorders']
---

## Gene Information: CRYBB1

### Genetic Position:
CRYBB1 (Crystallin Beta B1) gene is located on the short (p) arm of chromosome 22 at position 11.2. 

### Pathology:
Mutations in CRYBB1 gene have been associated with congenital cataracts which are the leading cause of blindness in children.

### Function:
The CRYBB1 gene encodes a member of the beta-crystallin protein family which are major constituents in the lens of the eye. These proteins are involved in maintenance of lens structure and transparency. 

### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 2381
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 1413
- Ensembl: ENSG00000128271
- OMIM: 123620
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P53674

Aliases for the gene include CRYB1, CTRCT11, LCA9.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- R119H (rs121908282)
- R140W (rs121908283)
- P185L (rs121908284)
- P56L (rs121908285)

All the above-mentioned mutations are missense mutations.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There is no record of somatic SNVs/InDels for the CRYBB1 gene in dbSNP.

### Related Disease:
Mutations in the CRYBB1 gene have been associated with Congenital Cataracts. 

### Treatment and Prognosis:
Treatment options for Congenital cataracts include surgery. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the cataract and the age at which it is diagnosed.

### Drug Response:
There is no information available about drug response to mutations in the CRYBB1 gene.

### Related Papers:

- Subject: Mutations in the β- and γ-crystallin genes cause cataract and underlie complex phenotypes associated with microphthalmia and/or cataract.
Author: Burdon KP, et al.
DOI: [10.1086/380397]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1086/380397)

- Subject: Beta-B2-crystallin: providing new insights into its role in the crystalline lens.
Author: Gupta R, Srivastava K.
DOI: [10.1007/s00044-019-02326-0]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00044-019-02326-0)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**