---
title: "AHSP"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: "
tags: ['AHSP', 'AlphaHemoglobinStabilizingProtein', 'Thalassemia', 'GeneticInformation', 'ProteinFunction', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'MedicalResearch', 'CarrierIdentification']
---

## Gene: 

AHSP (Alpha Hemoglobin-Stabilizing Protein)

## Function: 

AHSP binds to alpha-globin chains and stabilizes their structure, protecting them from oxidative damage. It also prevents excess alpha-globin chains from forming aggregates, which can cause cell damage.

## External IDs:

* HGNC: 20993
* NCBI Entrez: 55807
* Ensembl: ENSG00000111143
* OMIM: 606971
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NPA8

## Aliases: 

* Alpha-Hemoglobin Stabilizing Protein
* DKFZp781K1694
* FLJ34560

## AA mutations and mutation type with dbSNP ID:

No mutations or sequence variations were identified in AHSP.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

No somatic SNVs/InDels were identified in AHSP.

## Related diseases:

AHSP deficiency is associated with alpha-thalassemia.

## Treatment and Prognosis:

There is currently no specific treatment for AHSP deficiency. The prognosis for alpha-thalassemia varies depending on the severity of the condition.

## Drug response:

No information about drug response related to AHSP was found.

## Related papers:

1. Subject: The role of alpha-hemoglobin-stabilizing protein in red cell biology and thalassemia

   Author: Kihm, A. J., Kong, Y., Hong, W., Russell, J. E., Rouda, S., Adachi, K., & Simon, M. C.

   DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.0030445)
   
2. Subject: Alpha-hemoglobin-stabilizing protein, a sensitive marker for alpha-thalassemia carrier identification

   Author: Daikeler, A., Thomas, K., Harrison, K., Vaickus, L., & Stone, M.

   DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/S2213-2600(17)30455-0)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**