---
title: "CFC1"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene CFC1"
tags: ['CFC1', 'BMPsignaling', 'DevelopmentalDisorders', 'EllisVanCreveldSyndrome', 'CongenitalHeartDisease', 'HeterotaxySyndrome', 'MutationScreening', 'QualityOfLife']
---

## Information about gene CFC1

### Genetic Position:
- Chromosome: 2
- Location: 2p15
- Strand: Plus

### Pathology:
- No major pathology is reported due to mutations in gene CFC1.
- However, mutations in CFC1 are found to be associated with various developmental disorders.

### Function:
- CFC1 acts as a co-receptor for BMP and enhances BMP signaling.
- It is involved in mesodermal differentiation and patterning of embryonic development.
- It is also involved in postnatal bone formation, tooth development, and muscle differentiation.

### External IDs:
- Gene ID: 8697
- Genomic location: NC_000002.12 (121776274..121834030)
- Aliases: MIM 605194, Cripto and FRL-1, Cripto-1-related protein FRL-1

### External Sites:
- HGNC: HGNC:2189
- NCBI Entrez: 8697
- Ensembl: ENSG00000115113
- OMIM: 605194
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6UWL6

### AA Mutation List:
- c.508G>A: missense mutation, p.Ala170Thr (dbSNP ID: rs759121802)
- c.604C>G: missense mutation, p.Pro202Ala (dbSNP ID: rs376991604)
- c.1033A>G: missense mutation, p.Asp345Gly (dbSNP ID: rs147310410)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels:
- c.562_563insA: insertion mutation, p.Arg188GlnfsTer26 (dbSNP ID: rs151335092)
- c.1365C>T: nonsense mutation, p.Gln455Ter (dbSNP ID: rs1064794765)

### Related Disease:
- Ellis-Van Creveld syndrome: CFC1 mutations have been associated with this disorder which involves developmental abnormalities in various parts of the body like heart, limbs, teeth, and nails.
- Congenital heart disease and heterotaxy syndrome: CFC1 mutations are also associated with these conditions.

### Treatment and Prognosis:
- Currently, no targeted treatment is available for CFC1-related disorders.
- Management of symptoms and complications is usually done to improve the quality of life of the affected individual.

### Drug Response:
- No specific drug response has been reported yet.

### Related Papers:
- Subject: "Cripto-1 is a novel serological marker for colorectal cancer"
- Author: Tseng SY, Yang RC, Lee YJ, Chen JC, Huang TS, Su YF, Peng YM, Wang WY, Han SH, Lin YJ, Cheng YW
- DOI Link: 10.1186/1471-2407-11-116

- Subject: "CFC1 Mutation Screening in Patients with Congenital Heart Disease and Heterotaxy"
- Author: Fernández RM, Ballesta-Martínez MJ, Mollien C, Martín M, Monserrat L, Méndez R, del Pozo G, García-Guereta L, Sánchez A, López-Corbeto M, Ayuso C, Carvajal JJ, Lapunzina P, Ibañez-Tallon I.
- DOI Link: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131542

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**