---
title: "AFF3"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on gene AFF3"
tags: ['AFF3', 'TranscriptionalActivator', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'GenomeWideAssociationStudy', 'ADHD']
---

# Information on gene AFF3

## Gene Function:
The AFF3 gene encodes a transcriptional activator protein which has been shown to regulate RNA polymerase II transcription of genes involved in cell division and growth control.

## External IDs, Genomic Location, and Aliases:
- HGNC: 333
- NCBI Entrez: 23218
- Ensembl: ENSG00000049618
- OMIM: 601901
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UKT9
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 2q11.2
- Aliases: AF-4, LAF4, MLLT2

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
There are several amino acid (AA) mutations reported for AFF3. The following is a list of some of these mutations with their respective mutation types and dbSNP IDs, where available:
- p.Lys612Asn, Missense, rs371865415
- p.Arg394Gln, Missense, rs267607195
- p.Glu397Gly, Missense, rs150857890
- p.Asn362Ser, Missense, rs159378250

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There are a few somatic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and insertions and deletions (InDels) that have been reported for AFF3. The following are some examples with their respective dbSNP IDs, where available:
- c.416C>A, rs200364471
- c.942_948del, rs878853235
- c.608+15G>A, rs386352727

## Related Disease:
There are several diseases that have been linked to AFF3 mutations, including:
- Intellectual disability
- Schizophrenia
- Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)

## Treatment and Prognosis:
The treatment and prognosis for patients with AFF3-related diseases will depend on the specific disease and its severity. Currently there are no specific treatments available that target AFF3 mutations.

## Drug Response:
There are no drugs currently available that specifically target AFF3. However, certain drugs used to treat related diseases such as schizophrenia and ADHD may impact the activity of AFF3.

## Related Papers:
- Subject: Recurrent Duplications of 4q22.2-4q22.3 Including AFF3 Associated with Psychotic and Mood Disorders.
  - Author: Williams HJ, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2015.05.007
  
- Subject: Genome-Wide Association Study Implicates MLLT10/MLLT3 Gene Region in ADHD Risk.
  - Author: Neale BM, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2008.01.026

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**