---
title: "ART4"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: ART4"
tags: ['ART4', 'ErythrocyteAntigen4', 'TransfusionReactions', 'RBCSurvival', 'HemolyticAnemia', 'ADPRibosyltransferase', 'BloodTransfusions', 'HematopoieticStemCellTransplantation']
---

# Gene: ART4

## Gene Position and Pathology
- ART4 gene is located on chromosome 12 at locus 12p12.3.
- Mutations in ART4 gene have been associated with decreased red blood cell (RBC) survival and increased susceptibility to transfusion reactions.

## Function
- ART4 encodes a protein known as erythrocyte antigen 4 (ER4), which is expressed on the surface of RBCs.
- ER4 acts as an ecto-ADP-ribosyltransferase and ADP-ribosylates glycophorin A on the RBC surface.
- The function of ART4 is not clearly understood, but it is believed to play a role in immune cell recognition and clearance of senescent RBCs.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 761
- NCBI Entrez: 117
- Ensembl: ENSG00000205227
- OMIM: 110200
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P26118
- Aliases: ER4, HNT1, CD297, and others.

## AA Mutations and dbSNP IDs
- c.130G>A (p.G44R) with dbSNP ID: rs117555085
- c.698C>T (p.P233L) with dbSNP ID: rs121908014

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.376G>A (p.V126M) with dbSNP ID: rs724159158

## Related Disease
- Transfusion reactions
- Decreased RBC survival
- Hemolytic anemia

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Transfusion reaction due to ART4 requires immediate medical attention, and the treatment typically involves stopping the transfusion and administering medications to manage the symptoms.
- Decreased RBC survival caused by ART4 mutations can be managed with regular blood transfusions and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
- The prognosis for individuals with ART4 mutations varies depending on the severity of their symptoms and the underlying cause of the condition.

## Drug Response
- There is limited information available regarding drug response and ART4 gene.

## Related papers
- Subject: ART4 gene mutations
- Author: Atoyebi, O. A., & Adeyemo, T. A.
- DOI: 10.1080/08830185.2020.1810466

- Subject: ART4 gene and transfusion reactions
- Author: Veldthuis, M., van Mens, S., & Porcelijn, L.
- DOI: 10.1007/s00277-019-03656-3

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**