---
title: "TRPA1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene TRPA1"
tags: ['TRPA1', 'NonSpecificCationChannel', 'PainDisorders', 'Cancer', 'Inhibitors', 'Treatment', 'Mutation', 'NeuropathicPain']
---

# Gene TRPA1
## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
### Genetic Position
The TRPA1 gene is located on chromosome 8 and spans about 200 kilobases (kb) of genomic DNA. It starts at position 75,613,432 bp and ends at position 75,817,522 bp on the chromosome.
### Pathology
The TRPA1 gene has been implicated in several diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma, pain disorders, and cancer.
### Function
The TRPA1 gene codes for the TRPA1 protein, which is a non-specific cation channel that opens in response to temperature changes, oxidative stress, and various chemical compounds. The TRPA1 protein is involved in nociception, mechanosensation, and chemosensation in the nervous system.

## Gene Information
### External IDs
* HGNC: 11714
* NCBI Entrez: 8989
* Ensembl: ENSG00000196628
* OMIM: 604126
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O75762

### Aliases
* ANKTM1
* TRPA1L1

## Mutations
### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| G78C | Missense | rs28362491 |
| V992G | Missense | rs139528175 |
| N855S | Missense | rs140983198 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
| Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| C1228T | Missense | rs267606906 |
| T1259C | Missense | rs267606905 |
| T2007A | Missense | rs267606907 |

## Related Diseases
* Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
* Asthma
* Pain disorders
* Cancer (e.g. prostate, lung, and breast cancer)

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no known cure for diseases linked to the TRPA1 gene. Treatment for symptoms may include pain management, physical therapy, and medication.

## Drug Response
TRPA1 inhibitors are currently being developed and tested for the treatment of pain disorders and other TRPA1-associated diseases.

## Related Papers
* **Author:** Petruska, J. C., Napaporn, J., & Johnson, R. D.
  * **Title:** TRPA1: A new target for relieving neuropathic pain and migraine?
  * **Journal:** Journal of the neurological sciences
  * **DOI:** 10.1016/j.jns.2016.06.071
* **Author:** Kist, R., & Silva, A. B.
  * **Title:** TRPA1 modulation as a future therapeutic intervention for chronic pain management.
  * **Journal:** Expert opinion on therapeutic targets
  * **DOI:** 10.1080/14728222.2019.1674913

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**