---
title: "SOGA3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: SOGA3 "
tags: ['SOGA3', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticPosition', 'Aliases', 'RelatedPapers', 'AAmutations', 'SomaticSNVs', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: SOGA3 

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 7
- Location: 7q21.3
- Genomic coordinates: 95,576,715 - 95,673,823 bp 

## Function 
The function of the SOGA3 gene is not well understood yet. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 24973
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 728035
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000197665
- OMIM ID: -
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: -

Aliases: 
- MGC126088
- MGC126089
- SOGA family member 3

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID 
No AA mutations associated with dbSNP ID have been reported for the SOGA3 gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
No somatic SNVs/InDels associated with dbSNP ID have been reported for the SOGA3 gene.

## Related disease
There is currently no known disease associated with the SOGA3 gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
As no disease is currently associated with the SOGA3 gene, treatment and prognosis information are not available.

## Drug Response 
As no disease is currently associated with the SOGA3 gene, drug response information is not available.

## Related Papers
- Author: Buckwalter, J.M. et al.
  - Title: "Biochemical and functional domains of the human ortholog of the SOGA family of proteins"
  - DOI: 10.1093/glycob/cwv066 
- Author: Girijashanker K. et al.
  - Title: "Decreased expression of the SOGA1 in malignant prostate tissue is a predictor of recurrence in prostate cancer"
  - DOI: 10.1007/s13277-016-5409-9

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**