---
title: "IFITM3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene IFITM3"
tags: ['IFITM3', 'GeneFunction', 'GenomicLocation', 'MutationTypes', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Gene IFITM3

## Information

- **Function:** The IFITM3 gene encodes for a protein that belongs to the Interferon-induced transmembrane (IFITM) protein family. This protein has been shown to restrict viral entry and infection by inhibiting the fusion of viral membranes with host-cell membranes.

- **External IDs:**
    - Gene ID: 10410
    - Genomic location: Chromosome 11p15.5
    - Alias names: 1-8D, 1-8U, CD225, DSPA2a, ISG60L, MIL-1,9-27

- **External sites:**
    - HGNC: 5580
    - NCBI Entrez: 10410
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000167646
    - OMIM: 607209
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q01628

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    - c.88G>A, missense, rs12252
    - c.117+63delC, intronic, rs1131596
    - c.-101C>T, regulatory region, rs17855750

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - No known somatic mutations reported.

- **Related disease:** Mutations in the IFITM3 gene have been associated with an increased risk for severe influenza.

- **Treatment and Prognosis:** There is no current treatment for IFITM3 gene mutations; however, prompt management of influenza symptoms can improve prognosis.

- **Drug response:** There are no drugs that specifically target IFITM3.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Potential role of IFITM proteins in restriction of respiratory syncytial virus and human parainfluenza virus type 3 infection.
  - Author: Li Z, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1186/1743-422x-11-33

- Subject: Association Between IFITM3 rs12252 Polymorphism and Influenza A/H1N1 Severity: A Meta-Analysis.
  - Author: Gao J, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0148919

- Subject: Genetics of influenza susceptibility.
  - Author: Everitt AR, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1701645114.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**