---
title: "ACADM"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene ACADM"
tags: ['ACADM', 'MCAD', 'GeneticDisorder', 'FattyAcidOxidation', 'NewbornScreening', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Mutation']
---

## Gene ACADM

- **Function:** The ACADM gene provides instructions for producing an enzyme called medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (MCAD) that plays a crucial role in breaking down fats for energy. MCAD is responsible for the oxidation of medium-chain fatty acids into acyl-CoA derivatives which is further used for energy production in the mitochondria.

- **External IDs and Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 126
    - NCBI Entrez Gene: 34
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000100226
    - OMIM: 607008
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P11310
    - Aliases: MCAD, MCUFDA

- **AA Mutation List:**
    - The ACADM gene has several mutations associated with it. Here are some of the commonly known mutations and dbSNP IDs:
        - c.985A>G (p.K329E) rs1061337
        - c.199T>C (p.V67A) rs2229292
        - c.203G>A (p.V68M) rs2229293
        - c.449G>A (p.E150K) rs74315329

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:**
    - The following somatic SNVs/InDels of ACADM gene have been reported:
        - c.319C>T (p.Q107X) rs876657765
        - c.202delT (p.V68Qfs*138) rs397514751
        - c.166delT (p.F56Lfs*52) rs773196132
        
- **Related Diseases:**
    - A mutation in the ACADM gene can cause a rare disorder called MCAD deficiency. This disorder affects the body's ability to break down fats for energy. Symptoms of this disorder can include hypoglycemia, vomiting, lethargy, and coma. MCAD deficiency is typically diagnosed through newborn screening programs.

- **Treatment and Prognosis:**
    - Treatment for MCAD deficiency involves avoiding fasting and eating a diet low in fats. Some individuals with MCAD deficiency may require treatment with carnitine supplements or a glucose infusion during periods of illness or fasting. With appropriate treatment, most individuals with MCAD deficiency can lead a normal life.

- **Drug Response:**
    - There is no known drug response associated with the ACADM gene.

- **Related Papers:**
    - Subject: Medium-Chain Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency
    - Author: Andres ML and Pons R
    - DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-444-64076-5.00005-7

    - Subject: Molecular genetics of medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency
    - Author: Vianey-Saban C, et al.
    - DOI: 10.1016/S0923-425X(98)00007-6

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**