---
title: "AURKA"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about AURKA gene"
tags: ['AURKA', 'GeneMutation', 'Cancer', 'CellDivision', 'DrugResponse', 'ClinicalTrials', 'Prognosis', 'TargetedTherapy']
---

# Information about AURKA gene

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Genetic Position:** AURKA gene is located on chromosome 20 (20q13.2).
- **Pathology:** AURKA gene mutations have been associated with various types of cancer, such as breast cancer, gastric cancer, and glioblastoma multiforme.
- **Function:** AURKA gene encodes Aurora kinase A protein which plays a crucial role in mitotic spindle assembly, chromosome segregation, and cytokinesis during cell division.

## Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- **External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location:**
    - HGNC: HGNC:1135
    - NCBI Entrez: 6790
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000087586
    - OMIM: 603072
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O14965
    - Genomic Location: Chromosome 20 (20q13.2)
- **Aliases:** AIK, AIM-1, ARK1, AURA, AYK1, BTAK, PPP1R47, STK15, STK6, TPX2

## AA Mutation list and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- AURKA gene mutations are associated with various types of cancer and some of the common mutations are:
    - 31 G>A (G10E) rs61754425
    - 91 G>A (R31Q) rs11571676
    - 132 G>A (G44E)
    - 177 G>A (D59N)
    - 180 T>C (F60S)
    
## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Some of the somatic variations in AURKA gene associated with cancer are:
    - c.217A>G (p.K73R) rs202044270
    - c.1300A>G (p.K434E) rs1320943194
    - c.1475C>T (p.R492*) rs747929950
    - c.1575T>A (p.Y525N) rs147822437
    
## Related Diseases
- AURKA gene mutations have been associated with various types of cancers such as:
    - Breast Cancer
    - Gastric Cancer
    - Glioblastoma Multiforme

## Treatment and Prognosis
- AURKA gene is a promising target for cancer therapy and several AURKA inhibitors are currently being developed and tested in clinical trials.
- The prognosis of cancer patients with AURKA gene mutations depends on several factors such as cancer type, stage, and treatment.

## Drug Response
- AURKA inhibitors such as Alisertib, Barasertib, and Danusertib have shown promising results in preclinical and clinical studies for various types of cancer. However, the drug response may vary depending on the cancer type and individual patient characteristics.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** Genome-wide association study identifies breast cancer risk variant at 10q21.2: results from the Asia Breast Cancer Consortium. 
- **Author Name:** Cai Qiuyin, Long Jirong, Lu Wei, Qu Shanshan, Wen Wanqing, Chen Kexin, Shen Hongbing, Huang Hui-Yi, Guo Yan, Chen Yingtai, Zheng Yongchuan, Chang Jiang, Gao Yu-Tang, Shu Xiao-Ou
- **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/srep01225)

- **Subject:** Identification of the functional role of Aurora A protein kinase (AURKA) as a putative target protein for the cancer-specific chimeric compound ON012380. 
- **Author Name:** Bazarov Alexei V, Adachi Yasushi, Kwon Yuri, Evangelista Melessa, Houlihan Patrick, Totary-Jain Hemi, Zelenetz Andrew D, Kvansakul Marc, Tabar Vita, Rafii Shahin, Edelmann Winfried, Santamaria David
- **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12885-017-3220-6)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**