---
title: "HSPA9"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for HSPA9"
tags: ['HSPA9', 'MitochondrialChaperone', 'Proteostasis', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'Therapeutics', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Gene Information for HSPA9

### Gene Function
HSPA9 is a gene that encodes for the mitochondrial chaperone protein, mortalin. This protein plays a crucial role in the folding and maintenance of the mitochondrial proteome, which is essential in maintaining cellular homeostasis.

### External IDs and Genomic Location
- HGNC ID: 5236
- NCBI Entrez ID: 3329
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000172274
- OMIM ID: 600737
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P38646
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 5, band q31.1

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- S155P: Missense mutation leading to the substitution of a serine with a proline at position 155. dbSNP ID: rs121912863
- R195W: Missense mutation leading to the substitution of an arginine with a tryptophan at position 195. dbSNP ID: rs121912864

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic mutations in the HSPA9 gene. Here are a few examples, along with their dbSNP IDs:
- c.1429+1G>A: Splice site mutation. dbSNP ID: rs767259529
- c.5C>T: Missense mutation leading to the substitution of a cysteine with a tryptophan at position 2. dbSNP ID: rs139365496
- c.1287A>G: Missense mutation leading to the substitution of an aspartic acid with a glycine at position 429. dbSNP ID: rs367543182

### Related Disease
Mutations in the HSPA9 gene have been associated with several diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and cancer. 

### Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment options and prognosis for diseases related to HSPA9 mutations vary depending on the specific disease and the severity of the mutation. However, various treatments are being developed that target HSPA9 as a way to provide therapeutic benefits.

### Drug Response
There are several drugs that have been identified as potential therapeutics for diseases associated with HSPA9 mutations. For example, geldanamycin is a drug that can inhibit the activity of HSPA9 and has shown promise in treating various forms of cancer.

### Related Papers
- Subject: HSPA9 and its function in mitochondrial proteostasis
  - Author: Alix Basse and Claes M. Gustafsson
  - DOI link:<[Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pharmthera.2019.107429>)

- Subject: HSPA9 regulates the glycolysis of hepatocellular carcinoma cells via protecting HK2 from Ubiquitination and Degradation
  - Author: Xiaoyu Liu, Kai Feng, et al.
  - DOI link:<[Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhep.2020.08.007>)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**