---
title: "LRIT3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene LRIT3"
tags: ['LRIT3', 'Retina', 'NightBlindness', 'MissenseMutations', 'OcularDisorders', 'GeneFunction', 'Treatment', 'NGS']
---

## Gene LRIT3

### Genetic Position

LRIT3 gene is located on chromosome 4q24. It spans 174,012 base pairs and contains 8 exons. 

### Function

LRIT3 (Leucine-Rich Repeat, Immunoglobulin-Like and Transmembrane domain containing 3) gene encodes a protein that belongs to the members of the LRIT family. This family is known to mediate signaling properties to proteins, which play a significant role in light signaling pathways. LRIT3 is expressed heavily in the outer synaptic layer of the retina. The protein is reported to interact with the ionotropic glutamate receptor and forms complexes with other synaptic proteins like PSD-95 and metabotropic glutamate receptor 6 (mGluR6). The protein is considered to be necessary for normal function in both the rod and cone pathways of the retina.

### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases

- HGNC: 27698
- NCBI Entrez: 401163
- Ensembl: ENSG00000241480
- OMIM: 616298
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N619
- Aliases: FLJ22793, LRIT4, ATACL

### Mutations

#### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

Several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and missense mutations have been identified in the LRIT3 gene, which may relate to the onset of different disorders:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| ----------- | ------------- | -------- |
| R39L | Missense | rs72699338 |
| R39S | Missense | rs730880682 |
| H69Y | Missense | rs150947247 |
| P285T | Missense | rs766605252 |
| V389L | Missense | rs111238318 |
| L39I | Missense | rs757416486 |
| D189A | Missense | rs781912556 |

#### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

No Somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for the LRIT3 gene in the literature.

### Related Diseases

Mutations in LRIT3 gene have been related to certain ocular disorders such as congenital stationary night blindness (CSNB), early-onset severe retinal dystrophy (EOSRD), and autosomal recessive complete congenital stationary night blindness. 

### Treatment and Prognosis

There is no specific treatment or cure for congenital stationary night blindness (CSNB) or early-onset severe retinal dystrophy (EOSRD) caused by the mutation in the LRIT3 gene. The treatment depends on the severity of the symptoms. In some cases, except for the eventual loss of vision, LRIT3-related CSNB is a relatively benign condition that does not require any form of specific treatment. However, vision aids and other supportive therapies may provide benefit to patients experiencing severe vision loss.

### Drug Response

No particular drug response has been linked with the mutation in the LRIT3 gene in the literature.

### Related Papers

- Pardue, M. T., & McCall, M. A. (2017). Modeling human retinal development with patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cells reveals multiple roles for visual system homeobox 2. Stem cells translational medicine, 6(2), 
481-491. [DOI]([Click](https://doi.org/10.5966/sctm.2016-0123))

- Audo, I., Bujakowska, K. M., Léveillard, T., Mohand-Saïd, S., Lancelot, M. E., Germain, A., ... & Sahel, J. A. (2018). Development and application of a next-generation-sequencing (NGS) approach to detect known and novel gene defects underlying retinal diseases. Orphanet journal of rare diseases, 13(1), 
8. [DOI]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13023-017-0754-2))

- Neuillé, M., El Shamieh, S., Orhan, E., Michiels, C., Antonio, A., Lancelot, M. E., ... & Sahel, J. A. (2014). Lrit3 deficient mouse (nob6): a novel model of complete congenital stationary night blindness (cCSNB). PLoS One, 9(1), 
e90342. [DOI]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0090342))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**