---
title: "HR"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene HR"
tags: ['GeneHR', 'HomologousRecombination', 'DNADamageResponse', 'Cancer', 'PARPinhibitors', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene HR

## Gene Information
- Function: The HR (homologous recombination) gene is involved in DNA repair through homologous recombination. It plays a key role in the repair of double-stranded DNA breaks.
- External IDs: HR gene is also known as RAD51, and its genomic location is at chromosome 15q15.1. Other aliases include DNA repair protein RAD51 homolog 1, HsRad51, RECA, and RAD51A.
- External Sites: 
    - HGNC: 9817
    - NCBI Entrez: 5888
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000173687
    - OMIM: 179617
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q06609

## Mutation Information
- AA Mutation List: Various mutations have been reported for the HR gene, including missense mutations, frameshift mutations, and splicing mutations. Some of the most common missense mutations include G150C, R150Q, and G151D.
- Mutation Type: The reported mutation types for the HR gene include germline, somatic, and sporadic mutations.
- dbSNP ID: Some of the commonly reported dbSNP IDs for HR gene mutations include rs1799950, rs1801321, and rs2760118.

## Related Disease
- The mutations in the HR gene have been associated with various types of cancer such as breast, ovarian, and pancreatic cancer, as well as with Fanconi anemia, a rare genetic disorder that affects bone marrow.
 
## Treatment and Prognosis
- The treatment and prognosis largely depend on the type and stage of the cancer but may include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and targeted therapy. Early detection and prompt treatment are important for improving the chances of a positive outcome.

## Drug Response
- PARP inhibitors have been shown to be effective for treating certain cancers with HR-related mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Homologous Recombination Repair and the DNA Damage Response
- Author: Alana L. Christie, Tiffany A. Katz, and Keith W. Caldecott
- DOI: 10.1146/annurev-genet-120116-023532

- Subject: Targeting DNA repair in cancer: Beyond PARP inhibitors
- Author: Maria C. Dominguez-Benjamin and Maria J. Guillen-Navarro
- DOI: 10.1016/j.drup.2020.100712

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**