---
title: "NBEAL2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information on gene NBEAL2"
tags: ['NBEAL2', 'GrayPlateletSyndrome', 'PlateletBiogenesis', 'BleedingDisorder', 'Thrombocytopenia', 'GeneticMutation', 'PlateletTransfusion', 'SupportiveCare']
---

## Information on gene NBEAL2

### Genetic Position
The NBEAL2 gene, also known as neurobeachin-like 2, is located on chromosome 3 at the position 3p21.31.

### Pathology
Studies have shown that mutations in the NBEAL2 gene are associated with Gray Platelet Syndrome (GPS), a rare bleeding disorder.

### Function
The NBEAL2 gene is involved in the regulation of platelet alpha-granule biogenesis and distribution, as well as the maintenance of granule size and number. It also has a role in melanosome biogenesis and dendrite development.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 25800
- NCBI Entrez: 81839
- Ensembl: ENSG00000114323
- OMIM: 609173
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NEV8
- Aliases: KIAA1878, NPHPL2

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Gly1316Ser: rs201954962
- p.Arg1498Trp: rs368904006
- p.Trp1416Arg: rs201346314
- p.Ile1352Thr: rs201815332
- p.Asp890Asn: rs879255899
- p.Asp890Asp: rs879255899

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic SNVs or InDels for the NBEAL2 gene.

### Related Disease
The NBEAL2 gene is associated with Gray Platelet Syndrome (GPS), which is characterized by thrombocytopenia, bleeding diathesis, and giant platelets.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for Gray Platelet Syndrome, but treatment options include platelet transfusion and supportive care.

### Drug Response
There is currently no specific drug for the treatment of Gray Platelet Syndrome.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Gray platelet syndrome: natural history of a large patient cohort and locus assignment to chromosome 3p | Author: Gunay-Aygun et al. | DOI: 10.1182/blood.
- Subject: Identification of the platelet ADP receptor targeted by antithrombotic drugs | Author: Hollopeter et al. | DOI: 10.1038/nature01098
- Subject: Neurobeachin-Like 2, a New Markedly Downregulated Gene in Severe Congenital Neutropenia Overlapping With Specific Granule Deficiency | Author: Skokowa et al. | DOI: 10.1097/MPH.0000000000001712

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**