---
title: "ESCO2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene ESCO2"
tags: ['ESCO2', 'RobertsSyndrome', 'WildervanckSyndrome', 'Cancer', 'DNAReplication', 'SisterChromatidCohesion', 'Mutation', 'Treatment']
---

# Information about gene ESCO2

## Genetic Position
- Gene name: ESCO2
- Chromosomal location: 8p21.1
- Genomic coordinates: NC_000008.11:g.20763953_209214 38
- Transcript ID: NM_001017415.2

## Pathology and Function
- ESCO2 gene encodes for Eco1-like protein 2 which is involved in DNA replication and sister chromatid cohesion during the cell cycle. It has also been linked to the development of some cancer types.
- Pathology: Roberts Syndrome (RBS), Wildervanck syndrome, and cancer development 
- Function: Sister chromatid cohesion during mitosis, DNA replication, Chromosome segregation
- Alias: (SCC3B, hEco2, KIAA1919)

## External IDs and Sites
- HGNC ID: 30967
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 157570
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000068781
- OMIM ID: 609353
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q5FWF5

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|-----------|
| p.R442* | nonsense | rs118204629 |
| p.F435L | missense | rs267607079 |
| p.N558S | missense | rs750287782 |
| p.R517C | missense | rs61755784 |
| p.Q673P | missense | rs757053652 |
| p.T874fs | frameshift | rs398124116 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
| Mutation Type | dbSNP ID | Related Cancer Type |
|----------------|-----------|----------------------------|
| missense | rs869320397| hepatocellular carcinoma |
| frameshift | rs267607081 | colorectal cancer |

## Related Disease
- Roberts syndrome (RBS)
- Wildervanck syndrome 
- Cancer development

## Treatment and prognosis
- Currently, there is no cure or treatment available for Roberts Syndrome or Wildervanck syndrome, only management of their symptoms.
- Treatment options for cancer types linked to ESCO2 gene mutation vary depending on type and stage of cancer.

## Drug response
- Currently, there are no drugs approved specifically for ESCO2 gene mutations or related diseases.

## Related papers
- Subject: The genomic landscape of response to EGFR blockade in colorectal cancer.
- Author: Yaeger R, et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccell.2018.11.014)

- Subject: Functional genomic screen identifies pathways sensitizing cells to tumor necrosis factor cytotoxicity.
- Author: Gallagher PJ, et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1803682115)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**