---
title: "CD46"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## CD46 gene"
tags: ['CD46', 'gene', 'complement', 'immunology', 'disease', 'treatment', 'drugresponse', 'mutations']
---

## CD46 gene

CD46 is a gene that is located on the long arm of chromosome 1. It is associated with several functions including complement regulatory activity and inhibition of T-cell activation. 

### Function

The CD46 protein acts as a cofactor for the complement factor I, promoting the degradation of C3b and C4b. It also plays a role in host immune response by inhibiting T-cell activation and cytokine production through its interaction with CD3. Furthermore, CD46 has been associated with cell migration, tissue development, tumor progression, and viral infection.

### Gene and genomic location, Aliases

- Gene symbol: CD46 
- Genomic location: Chromosome 1q32.2 
- Aliases: MCP, TLX 

### External IDs

- HGNC: 1661
- NCBI Entrez: 4179
- Ensembl: ENSG00000171862
- OMIM: 120920
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P15529 

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

The following are some of the CD46 protein-coding mutations listed on the dbSNP database:

|Mutation|Mutation type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|p.Arg132Gln|Missense|rs187293416|
|p.Asn421Ser|Missense|rs200505189|
|p.Gln552Ter|Nonsense|rs104894431|
|p.Asn374Lys|Missense|rs1061710154|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

Some of the somatic mutations in CD46 with their corresponding dbSNP IDs are:

|Mutation|Mutation type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|c.98C>T|SNV|rs869025460|
|c.112T>C|SNV|rs868582283|
|c.396G>T|SNV|rs763255080|
|c.142-12A>G|SNV|rs782322659|

### Related disease

CD46 mutations have been associated with different diseases such as:

- Atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome
- Measles susceptibility and severity
- Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)
- Multiple sclerosis
- Malaria

### Treatment and prognosis

There is no cure for most diseases related to CD46 mutations, and the treatment is mainly focused on managing the symptoms. For example, in patients with atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome, treatment may include plasma exchange, steroids, and complement inhibitors. In the case of measles, vitamin A supplementation may help reduce morbidity and mortality. The prognosis of these diseases varies depending on the severity of the symptoms and the age at onset.

### Drug response

Targeting the CD46 protein may be beneficial for the treatment of certain diseases such as cancer and viral infections. For example, monoclonal antibodies targeting CD46 have been shown to inhibit the proliferation and migration of cancer cells. Additionally, CD46 blocking antibodies have been tested as a potential therapy for viral infections such as cytomegalovirus and HIV.

### Related papers

- Subject: CD46 and cancer 
  - [Author: Borrego, F., & Kabat, J. (2015).](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25921254/)) 
  - [DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.3763](https://doi.org/10.18632/oncotarget.3763))

- Subject: CD46 and viral infections 
  - [Author: Longhi, M. P., Harris, C. L., Morgan, B. P., & Gallimore, A. (2006).](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16769044/))
  - [DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2249.2006.03194.x](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2249.2006.03194.x))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**