---
title: "MGAT5B"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene MGAT5B"
tags: ['GeneMGAT5B', 'N-glycosylation', 'GolgiEnzyme', 'EnzymeFunction', 'NoAssociatedDisease', 'GeneticPosition', 'ExternalIDs', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene MGAT5B

## Genetic Position and Pathology
- **Genetic Position:** The MGAT5B gene is located on chromosome 6q24.2.
- **Pathology:** MGAT5B is not associated with any disease or pathological condition as of yet.


## Function
The MGAT5B gene encodes for a Golgi enzyme called alpha-1,6-mannosylglycoprotein 6-beta-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase 5B. This enzyme plays a crucial role in the N-glycosylation process of glycoproteins. Specifically, it adds N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) to the beta-linked mannose residues of N-glycans.


## External IDs, Aliases, and Links
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 17219
    - NCBI Entrez: 84708
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000179218
    - OMIM: 614775
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NBJ5

- **Aliases:**
    - GnT-Vb
    - GlcNAc-T-Vb
    - GnTVb


## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
As of yet, no AA mutation has been associated with the MGAT5B gene in humans.


## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
As of yet, no somatic SNVs/InDels have been associated with the MGAT5B gene in humans.


## Related Disease
As mentioned earlier, MGAT5B is not associated with any disease or pathological condition.


## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment or prognosis associated with the MGAT5B gene as it is not known to cause any diseases.


## Drug Response
As of yet, no drug response has been associated with the MGAT5B gene in humans.


## Related Papers
- **Subject:** The MGAT5B gene and its role in the N-glycosylation process
- **Author(s):** Jefferis, Roy
- **DOI Link:** [10.1038/nbt1364](https://doi.org/10.1038/nbt1364))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**