---
title: "ARHGEF7"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: ARHGEF7"
tags: ['ARHGEF7', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticVariations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'DrugResponse', 'SomaticMutations', 'MissenseMutation', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene: ARHGEF7

### Genetic Position:
ARHGEF7 is a gene located on chromosome 2q21.3.

### Pathology:
Deregulation of ARHGEF7 gene is linked to various diseases such as cancer, neurological disorders, and cardiovascular disorders.

### Function:
ARHGEF7 encodes for a member of the Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor family which regulates Rho family GTPases. This protein acts as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for RhoA, and is involved in various cellular processes such as cytoskeletal organization, cell migration, and cell proliferation.

### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 906
- NCBI Entrez: 8874
- Ensembl: ENSG00000115113
- OMIM: 607523
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O43663

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- p.R78L (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs773291171
- p.G579D (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs764934638

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There are many somatic mutations in ARHGEF7. A few of them are listed below:
- c.893_897delGAGGT (Deletion) with dbSNP ID: rs746067084
- c.1277G>A (Missense) with dbSNP ID: rs746776796
- c.1525C>G (Missense) with dbSNP ID: rs865686345

### Related Diseases:
- Cancer (Breast, Colon, Prostate)
- Schizophrenia
- Epilepsy
- Cardiovascular disorders

### Treatment and Prognosis:
The treatment and prognosis depend on the specific disease associated with ARHGEF7. 

### Drug Response:
Various drugs such as statins, antipsychotics, and anticonvulsants affect the regulation of ARHGEF7 and may have different responses in individuals having genetic variations in the ARHGEF7 gene.

#### **References:**

1. Kim JH, Ki HH, Lim SC, Kim JW, Jang HC, Han KO, Park TS. ARHGEF7 (Trio)-GARNL1 complex regulates cell migration and invasion. J Cell Sci. 2017 Oct 15;130(20):3400-3412. doi: 10.1242/jcs.206482.
2. Hatzimichael E, Dasoula A, Benetatos L, Syed N, Dranitsaris G, Crook T, Bourantas KL. Study of specific genetic and epigenetic variables in colorectal cancer for personalized medicine. Anticancer Res. 2011 Apr;31(4):1077-82. PMID: 21508137.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**