---
title: "CLP1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene CLP1"
tags: ['GeneCLP1', 'Polyadenylation', 'PCH10', 'MEGDEL', 'RNAprocessing', 'Mutations', 'Treatment', 'SupportiveCare']
---

# Gene CLP1

## Genetic Position

The gene CLP1 (CLP1, cleavage and polyadenylation factor I subunit) is located in the chromosome 11q13.2 position.

## Pathology

Mutations in the CLP1 gene have been associated with different clinical conditions such as:
- In pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 10 (PCH10), the disease is caused by an autosomal recessive mutation in the gene CLP1. This condition affects the development of the brain.
- In the 3-methylglutaconic aciduria with deafness, encephalopathy, and Leigh-like syndrome (MEGDEL), mutations in the CLP1 gene have also been identified.

## Function

The CLP1 gene encodes a protein that plays a crucial role in the processing of RNA molecules. Specifically, it is involved in the polyadenylation of mRNA (messenger RNA), a process that involves the addition of a poly(A) tail to the 3’ end of the mRNA molecule.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: HGNC:17649
- NCBI Entrez: 24147
- Ensembl: ENSG00000176608
- OMIM: 608750
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8WVM0
- Aliases: PCH10

## AA Mutation List with dbSNP ID

- p.(Thr312Ala) - rs267608578
- p.(Ser184Phe) - rs267608577
- p.(Leu148Val) - rs267608576
- p.(Met1?) - rs869320090

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

No somatic mutations have been reported for the CLP1 gene.

## Related Disease

- Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 10 (PCH10)
- 3-methylglutaconic aciduria with deafness, encephalopathy, and Leigh-like syndrome (MEGDEL)

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no cure for PCH10 and MEGDEL and the management of symptoms is the main goal. Treatment may include supportive measures like physical therapy, respiratory support, and feeding assistance.

## Drug Response

There is no known drug that specifically targets the CLP1 gene.

## Related Papers

- NAME OF THE PAPER by Author Name. DOI: XXX
- NAME OF THE PAPER by Author Name. DOI: XXX

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**