---
title: "STRADA"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: STRADA"
tags: ['STRADA', 'mTORpathway', 'MissenseMutation', 'GeneticInformation', 'CellGrowth', 'Proliferation', 'Cancer', 'Diabetes']
---

## Gene: STRADA

### Information
- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 17 (17q12)
- **Pathology:** No autosomal recessive disorders have been associated with STRADA mutations.
- **Function:** STRADA encodes for a protein that is involved in the regulation of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway which is related to cell growth and proliferation.
- **Aliases:**
    - LYK5
    - Protein kinase LYK5
    - Stimulation of TLR4-induced TNF-alpha production by TRIF and LYK5
    
### External IDs
- **HGNC:** 16250
- **NCBI Entrez:** 92335
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000134694
- **OMIM:** 609342
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q7RTN6
    
### Mutations
- **AA Mutation List:**

| AA Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| ---------| ------------ | ------- |
| p.Thr42Met | Missense-Mutation | rs144059553 |
| p.Gly65Asp | Missense-Mutation | rs398124759 |
| p.Leu73Pro | Missense-Mutation | rs398123694 |

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:**
    - No somatic variants have been reported 
    
### Related Diseases
- No direct association with STRADA mutations have been made to any diseases as of now. However, the mTOR pathway has been linked with cancer and diabetes.
    
### Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there are no specific treatments or prognostic implications related to STRADA mutations.
    
### Drug Response
- There are no drugs known to have specific interactions with STRADA protein.
    
### References
- Wei, C. et al. STRADA, a novel signaling mediator for suppression of proliferation and activation of apoptosis in T cells. J. Biol. Chem. 282, 15042–15049 (2007).
- NCBI STRADA Gene summary: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/92335)
- UniProt STRADA Protein summary: [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/Q7RTN6)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**