---
title: "PRSS56"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: PRSS56"
tags: ['PRSS56', 'EyeDevelopment', 'OcularDisorders', 'MissenseMutations', 'Nanophthalmos', 'Glaucoma', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: PRSS56

## Information

- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 20: Chr20:10,963,538-10,985,482
- **Pathology:** PRSS56 gene is known to play a role in eye development. Its mutations have been associated with various ocular disorders.
- **Function:** PRSS56 gene encodes a serine protease enzyme that plays a critical role in eye development.

## Gene External IDs and Aliases

- **HGNC:** HGNC:19894
- **NCBI Entrez Gene:** 345407
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000177591
- **OMIM:** 614325
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q6UXI9

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are several AA mutations reported in PRSS56 gene. Some of them with their mutation type and dbSNP IDs are:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-------------|--------|
|P819R| Missense | rs3769932 |
|T377A| Missense | rs73953142 |
|P154A| Missense | rs73751505 |
|I96V| Missense | rs10910113 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There is no report of somatic SNVs/InDels for PRSS56 gene.

## Related Diseases

Various ocular disorders have been associated with PRSS56 gene mutations. Some of these disorders are:

- Nanophthalmos 2
- Glaucoma 3, primary congenital, C

## Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment options for ocular disorders caused by PRSS56 gene mutations vary depending on the specific condition and its severity. Regular follow-up with an ophthalmologist is recommended for those with such conditions. Prognosis depends on the specific condition and the severity of the symptoms.

## Drug Response

There are no specific drugs targeted towards treating ocular disorders caused by PRSS56 gene mutations.

## Related Papers

- **Subject:** Regulation of PRSS56 expression in human Müller cells and its potential functions in ocular growth
- **Author:** Liu H, Wei X, Kong J, et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1186/s12864-016-3365-4

- **Subject:** Nanophthalmos-associated mutations in the novel Prss56 gene encoding a serine protease of the secretory pathway
- **Author:** Ayala-Ramirez R, Graue-Wiechers F, Robredo V, et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1016/j.ajhg.2010.03.007

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**