---
title: "PSEN2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene PSEN2 "
tags: ['PSEN2', 'AlzheimersDisease', 'Presenilin2', 'MissenseMutations', 'EarlyOnsetFamilialAlzheimersDisease', 'GeneticTesting', 'BetaAmyloidPeptides', 'SomaticSNVs']
---

# Information on Gene PSEN2 

## Genetic Position 

The PSEN2 gene is located on chromosome 1, specifically at position 1q42.13. 

## Pathology 

Mutations in the PSEN2 gene have been associated with early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease (EOFAD).

## Function 

The PSEN2 gene encodes for presenilin-2, which is a transmembrane protein that plays a role in the processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and the production of beta-amyloid peptides that are involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. 

## External IDs 

- HGNC: 9580 
- NCBI Entrez: 5664 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000149925 
- OMIM: 600759 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P49810 

Aliases of PSEN2 include AD3TL2, AD4, PS2, STM2, and PSNL2.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type 

There are several known mutations in the PSEN2 gene that are associated with familial Alzheimer's disease, including: 

- N141I (rs63750913)
- A237V (rs28942073)
- T122P (rs63750517)
- D439A (rs397514646)

These mutations are missense mutations, which means they result in a single amino acid change in the presenilin-2 protein.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels 

There are several somatic SNVs and InDels identified in the PSEN2 gene, and some of them are linked with human cognition. Some of the SNVs with their dbSNP IDs are:

- rs855899
- rs483922
- rs483921

## Related Diseases 

Mutations in PSEN2 are known to cause early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease (EO-FAD).

## Treatment and Prognosis 

There is no known cure for Alzheimer's disease, and treatments are often aimed at managing symptoms and slowing disease progression. Genetic testing may provide information for early diagnosis. 

## Drug Response 

No drug response data is available at this point.

## References 

- Cruts M, van Duijn CM, Backhovens H, et al. Estimation of the genetic contribution of presenilin-1 and -2 mutations in a population-based study of presenile Alzheimer disease. Hum Mol Genet. 1998;7:43-51. doi:10.1093/hmg/7.1.43
- Rogaev EI, Sherrington R, Rogaeva EA, et al. Familial Alzheimer's disease in kindreds with missense mutations in a gene on chromosome 1 related to the Alzheimer's disease type 3 gene. Nature. 1995;376(6543):775-778. doi:10.1038/376775a0.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**