---
title: "VIPAS39"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about VIPAS39 gene"
tags: ['VIPAS39', 'GeneticDisorders', 'VesicularTrafficking', 'IntracellularProteinTransport', 'LiverTransplantation', 'SupportiveCare', 'RareDiseases', 'CCDC103']
---

## Information about VIPAS39 gene

### Genetic position 
- VIPAS39 is located on the long arm of chromosome 12 at position 12q24.31.

### Pathology
- VIPAS39 has been associated with several diseases, including a rare autosomal recessive disorder called Arthrogryposis, renal dysfunction and cholestasis syndrome (ARC) and progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 2 (PFIC2). 

### Function 
- VIPAS39 encodes a protein called CCDC103 which is part of an endosome-associated recycling complex (EAR) involved in vesicular trafficking and intracellular protein transport.

### External IDs, aliases and genomic location 
- Gene ID: 51562
- Genomic location: 12q24.31
- HGNC ID: 18367
- Alias: CCDC103, C12orf60

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- No amino acid variant has been reported for VIPAS39

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
- No somatic SNV or InDel was found for VIPAS39 in dbSNP.

### Related disease 
- VIPAS39 is associated with two rare genetic disorders - Arthrogryposis, renal dysfunction and cholestasis syndrome (ARC) and progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 2 (PFIC2).

### Treatment and prognosis 
- The current treatment of VIPAS39 associated disorders includes supportive care and in some cases, liver transplantation. The long-term prognosis varies depending on the severity of symptoms and the response to treatment.

### Drug response 
- No specific drug response has been reported for VIPAS39.

### Related papers and DOI links 
- Subject: Arthrogryposis, renal dysfunction and cholestasis syndrome (ARC) and progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 2 (PFIC2).
- Author: Wai Chin Foo, Tarun Rustagi and Julia Bledsoe
- DOI links: 
    - [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7100480/)
    - [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24588622/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**