---
title: "AKAP10"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: AKAP10"
tags: ['AKAP10', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticVariants', 'NonSynonymousVariants', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene: AKAP10

### Genetic Position:
- Chromosome: 17
- Location: q21.33

### Pathology:
- No known pathological conditions are associated with AKAP10 gene mutations.

### Function:
- The AKAP10 gene encodes a protein known as A-Kinase Anchoring Protein 10. This protein plays an important role in the regulation of protein kinase A (PKA) signaling and cellular processes like cell growth and differentiation.

### External IDs:
- HGNC: 411
- NCBI Entrez: 11214
- Ensembl: ENSG00000109047
- OMIM: 605017
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O43572

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- No disease-causing mutations have been reported in the AKAP10 gene. However, the following non-synonymous variants have been reported in the population:
   - p.Arg793Cys (rs147325614)
   - p.Gly1057Val (rs141081554)
   
### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- No somatic mutations have been reported in the AKAP10 gene to date.

### Related Disease:
- No diseases are specifically associated with mutations in the AKAP10 gene.

### Treatment and Prognosis:
- Since there are no known disease-associated mutations in AKAP10, there are no specific treatment or prognostic implications related to the gene.

### Drug Response:
- No known drug responses are associated with the AKAP10 gene.

### Related Papers:
- Subject: Characterization of human AKAP19/Profilin and its interactions with actin and proteins of the endocytic machinery by multi-dimensional protein identification technology (MudPIT)
   - Author: Liu Y, Li R, Ladbury JE, Zhou F, Li T, Xu W, Lu B, Liu X.
   - DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2009.03.020
   
- Subject: A-kinase Anchoring Proteins: From protein complexes to physiology and disease
   - Author: Smith FD, Langeberg LK, Scott JD.
   - DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2016.11.002

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**