---
title: "HS1BP3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene HS1BP3"
tags: ['HS1BP3', 'GeneFunction', 'GenomicLocation', 'Aliases', 'NoKnownPathology', 'NoKnownDiseaseAssociation', 'NoKnownDrugResponse', 'TCellSignaling']
---

# Information about Gene HS1BP3

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
- Gene: HS1BP3
- Chromosomal Location: 1q21.3
- Pathology: No known pathology associated.
- Function: HS1BP3 encodes a protein that belongs to the lipid phosphatase-related protein family. The exact function of HS1BP3 is still not clear. However, it is known to be involved in regulating the immune response by inhibiting T-cell signaling pathways.

## External IDs, Genomic Location, and Aliases
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 14113
    - NCBI Entrez: 83878
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000158251
    - OMIM: 610412
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H8F9
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 1 (GRCh38.p13) - NC_000001.11 (153,238,901-153,280,620)
- Aliases: KIAA1817, FLJ37358, UNQ3405

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants are known in HS1BP3 according to ClinVar.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No known somatic variants are present in dbSNP for HS1BP3.

## Related Diseases
- No specific diseases have been associated with mutations in the HS1BP3 gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- As HS1BP3 does not appear to be associated with any specific diseases, there are no specific treatments or prognoses.

## Drug Response
- There are no known drugs or therapeutic targets specific to HS1BP3.

## Related Papers
- Subject: HS1BP3 regulates T-cell signaling and immune response
- Author: Park J, Lee SY, Yoo HM, et al.
- DOI: 10.1038/srep11468


Note: Please note that the information provided is not exhaustive and may change as new research is conducted. This information is intended for educational purposes only and should not be used for diagnosis or treatment without consultation with a healthcare professional.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**