---
title: "MIR890"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene MIR890"
tags: ['GeneMIR890', 'MicroRNA', 'Cancer', 'Regulation', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'Proliferation', 'Differentiation', 'Apoptosis']
---

# Information on Gene MIR890

## Genetic Position
Gene MIR890 is located on chromosome 11 (11q24.3) in humans.

## Pathology
Gene MIR890 is a microRNA gene, and its overexpression is associated with various cancer types, including hepatocellular carcinoma, lung cancer, and colorectal cancer.

## Function
MIR890 is known to regulate the expression of various genes by binding to their mRNA. It has been found to be involved in cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: HGNC:35476
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 100271842
- Ensembl: ENSG00000266303
- OMIM: None
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Not applicable

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Not applicable since MIR890 is a microRNA gene and does not encode a protein.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Not applicable since MIR890 is a microRNA gene and does not have any coding regions.

## Related Disease
Overexpression of MIR890 has been associated with various cancer types, including hepatocellular carcinoma, lung cancer, and colorectal cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Inhibiting MIR890 expression has been proposed as a potential therapeutic strategy for cancer treatment. However, further research is needed to determine the efficacy and safety of this approach.

## Drug Response
No drug response information is currently available for MIR890.

## Related Papers
- Subject: MicroRNA MIR890 regulates proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis of retinal progenitor cells by targeting nuclear factor-κB.
  - Author: He Z, Ouyang H, Lin L, Wu H, OuYang X, Li X, Pan Y, Li J.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2019.107083
- Subject: MicroRNA-890 promote the proliferation and migration of lung cancer cells by targeting SRC kinase signaling inhibitor 1 and suppressor of fused.
  - Author: Liu H, Chi W, Li S, Zhang L, Huang Y.
  - DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000012974
- Subject: MicroRNA-890 modulates nuclear factor-KB signaling pathway and regulates human hepatocellular carcinoma cell growth.
  - Author: Zhang J, Zhu Y, Gong J, Zhang H, Wang K.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s10787-017-0413-2

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**