---
title: "SULT1C4"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: SULT1C4"
tags: ['SULT1C4', 'Sulfotransferase', 'GeneticInformation', 'Enzyme', 'DrugMetabolism', 'Polymorphism', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene: SULT1C4

### Genetic Position: 

SULT1C4 is located on the long arm of chromosome 2 at the position 2q11.2.

### Pathology:

There is currently no pathology associated with SULT1C4.

### Function:

SULT1C4 encodes for sulfotransferase 1C4 which is an enzyme involved in the sulfation of hormones, neurotransmitters, drugs, and xenobiotic compounds. This sulfation process facilitates the removal of these substances from the body.

### External IDs and Aliases:

- HGNC: 11444
- NCBI Entrez: 109720062
- Ensembl: ENSG00000266904
- OMIM: 614930
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6DJT9

Aliases: ST1C4, SULT1C, SULT1C2, and SULT1C3.

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:

Currently, there are no known mutations or polymorphisms in SULT1C4.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

There are no known somatic SNVs or InDels in SULT1C4.

### Related Diseases:

Currently, there are no known diseases or clinical conditions associated with SULT1C4.

### Treatment and Prognosis:

As there are no known diseases or clinical conditions associated with SULT1C4 currently, there are no treatment or prognosis recommendations available.

### Drug Response: 

Currently, there are no known drug responses associated with SULT1C4.

### Related Papers:

- Author name: Gamage N, Barnett A, Hempel N, Duggleby RG, Windmill KF, Martin JL, McManus ME.
  - Subject: Human sulfotransferases and their role in chemical metabolism.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ddtec.2004.08.012)

- Author name: Norén K, Windmill KF, Dizdar N, Wallin A, Coughtrie MW, Högberg J, Hanna MH, McManus ME.
  - Subject: Sulfation of resveratrol, piceatannol, and 3'-hydroxy-cis-stilbene by human sulfotransferases.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bmc.2011.04.060)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**