---
title: "ETV4"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ETV4"
tags: ['GeneETV4', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'Cancer', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResistance', 'TargetedTherapy', 'Immunotherapy']
---

# Gene ETV4

## Information

Gene ETV4 is located on chromosome 17q12 and has a genomic size of 101.8 kb. It encodes the ETS variant 4 (ETV4) protein. The gene has several aliases including E1A-F, E1AF, p51, and ETV-5.

## Function

The ETV4 protein is a transcription factor that plays a role in the regulation of genes involved in the development of various tissues including skeletal muscle, kidney, and prostate. It is also involved in tumorigenesis and metastasis in several types of cancer.

## External IDs

- HGNC ID: 3508
- Entrez Gene ID: 2115
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000131018
- OMIM ID: 601299
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P43268

## Mutations

There are several mutations associated with the ETV4 gene including:

- p.V140M: rs113540160
- p.K355N: rs201387775
- p.G356S: rs372340687
- p.E272K: rs142029153

## Related Disease

ETV4 has been found to be involved in several types of cancer including prostate cancer, breast cancer, and Ewing sarcoma.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Targetted therapy and immunotherapy are currently being explored as potential treatment options for cancers that involve ETV4. Both the prognosis and treatment vary depending on the type of cancer.

## Drug Response

Some studies have shown that ETV4 expression can indicate drug resistance in certain types of cancer.

## References

- Subramanian, V., & Vincent, M. (2018). Targeting transcription factors–lessons from ETV1 and ETV4. Molecular cancer research, 16(9), 1295-1306.
- Zhang, Y., & Yu, J. (2019). The role of ETV4 in cancer. Bioscience reports, 39(6), BSR20190009.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**