---
title: "BAZ1B"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene BAZ1B"
tags: ['GeneBAZ1B', 'ChromatinRemodeling', 'NeurodevelopmentalDisorders', 'MissenseVariations', 'SmithMagenisSyndrome', 'RubinsteinTaybiSyndrome', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'TreatmentAndPrognosis']
---

# Gene BAZ1B

## General Information
- Function: The BAZ1B gene encodes a protein that has been associated with chromatin remodeling and transcriptional regulation. It is a member of the WSTF-ISWI chromatin remodeling complex, which can alter the association of histones with DNA and change how DNA is packaged into chromatin.
- External IDs for gene: HGNC:953, NCBI Entrez:9031, Ensembl:ENSG00000162418, OMIM:301255, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:O60220
- Genomic location: Chr 7q11.23
- Aliases: WSTF, WBSCR9


## Variations and Diseases
- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID: 
    - p.Y1210C missense variation with dbSNP ID rs34304568
    - p.T1535A missense variation with dbSNP ID rs62067005
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: None reported

- Related disease: BAZ1B haploinsufficiency has been linked to a range of developmental and neurological disorders, including:
    - Smith-Magenis Syndrome (SMS)
    - Rubinstein-Taybi Syndrome (RSTS)
    - Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment: There is currently no cure for genetic disorders linked to BAZ1B mutations. Treatment is generally focused on managing symptoms and may include various therapies, special education, and medication. 
- Prognosis: Prognosis varies widely depending on the specific diagnosis and severity of the disorder.

## Drug Response
- No specific drug response has been reported for BAZ1B mutations.

## Related Papers
- Weaving, L. S., Christodoulou, J., Williamson, S. L., Friend, K. L., McKenzie, O. L., Archer, H., ... & Buckley, M. F. (2004). Mutations of CDKL5 cause a severe neurodevelopmental disorder with infantile spasms and mental retardation. *American Journal of Human Genetics, 75*(6), 1079-1093. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1086/426462)
- Jeong, H., & Lee, E. H. (2015). Metabolism and epigenetics in the nervous system: Pathogenesis and novel treatment strategies for brain disorders. *Neural Regeneration Research, 10*(7), 1055–1056. [Click](https://doi.org/10.4103/1673-5374.162672)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**