---
title: "EIF2B3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about EIF2B3 Gene"
tags: ['EIF2B3', 'VanishingWhiteMatter', 'NeurologicalDisorder', 'ProteinSynthesis', 'MissenseMutation', 'Leukoencephalopathy', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'PoorPrognosis']
---

# Information about EIF2B3 Gene

## Genetic Position
The EIF2B3 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 (1q32.1) and spans about 50 kilobases.

## Pathology
The EIF2B3 gene is associated with Vanishing White Matter (VWM) disease, which is a rare inherited disorder of the white matter of the brain. This disease is characterized by progressive neurological deterioration. Mutations in EIF2B3 gene lead to abnormalities in the EIF2B enzyme complex, which is involved in the regulation of protein synthesis. 

## Function
The EIF2B3 gene encodes a subunit of the EIF2B protein complex that is critical for protein synthesis and plays a crucial role in the regulation of translation initiation.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 3307
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 8898
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000064655
- OMIM ID: 606686
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9GZX6
- Aliases: EIF2BETA, eIF-2B GDP-GTP exchange factor subunit beta, eIF2B subunit beta

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID
The following are some of the amino acid mutations and their types that have been reported in the EIF2B3 gene:

|Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|--------|-------------|--------|
|p.Asp93Tyr|Missense|rs200864342|
|p.Arg195Trp|Missense|rs1057516473|
|p.Arg195Leu|Missense|rs104894330|
|p.Arg193Cys|Missense|rs778058604|
|p.Glu322Val|Missense|rs267606884|
|p.Ala427Thr|Missense|rs1057516474|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID in the EIF2B3 gene.

## Related Disease
The EIF2B3 gene is associated with Vanishing White Matter (VWM) disease, which is a rare inherited disorder of the white matter of the brain. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for VWM disease. Treatment is mainly supportive and aimed at managing the symptoms. The prognosis for this disease is generally poor, with most patients experiencing progressive neurological deterioration.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response for VWM disease.

## Related Papers

- van der Knaap MS, Leegwater PA, Könst AA, Visser A, Naidu S, Oudejans CB, Schutgens RB, Pronk JC. Mutations in each of the five subunits of translation initiation factor eIF2B can cause leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter. Ann Neurol. 2002 Nov;52(5):644-51. doi: 10.1002/ana.10336. PMID: 12402260.
- Fogli A, Schiffmann R, Hugendubler L, Combes P, Bertini E, Rodriguez D, De Michele G, Briand G, Vuillaumier-Barrot S, Caruso U, Lefeber D, Sperle K, Seylaz J, Boespflug-Tanguy O. The effect of genotype on the natural history of eIF2B-related leukodystrophies. Neurology. 2004 Mar 9;62(5):905-8. doi: 10.1212/wnl.62.5.905. PMID: 15007135.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**