---
title: "DGCR5"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene DGCR5"
tags: ['DGCR5', 'DiGeorgeSyndrome', 'Chromosome22', 'GeneticDisorder', 'MultidisciplinaryCare', 'HeartDevelopment', 'BrainDevelopment', 'OMIM']
---

## Information about Gene DGCR5

### Genetic Position

DGCR5 is a gene located on chromosome 22q11.2.

### Pathology

DGCR5 has been associated with DiGeorge Syndrome (DGS), a genetic disorder that is caused by a deletion in the same chromosomal region (22q11.2).

### Function for Gene

The exact function of DGCR5 is not fully understood. However, it is believed to play a role in the development of the heart and brain.

### External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 24567 
- NCBI Entrez: 100129361 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000276842 
- OMIM: 606656 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8WXF9 
- Aliases: DGCR5L1, DGCR5L2, DGS, DGS192, DGS3, MGC35234, non-protein coding RNA DGCR5, and RNA5-12K1.2.

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

No amino acid (AA) mutations have been reported for DGCR5 to date.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for DGCR5 to date.

### Related Disease

DGCR5 has been associated with DiGeorge Syndrome, which can cause a wide range of symptoms including cardiovascular and craniofacial abnormalities, immune system deficiencies, and cognitive and behavioral disorders.

### Treatment and Prognosis

DiGeorge Syndrome is a genetic disorder that requires multidisciplinary care, typically including surgical and/or therapeutic interventions. The treatment and prognosis depend on the specific symptoms and severity of the condition in each individual case.

### Drug Response

There is currently no known drug response specifically associated with DGCR5.

### Related Papers

- Subject: DGCR5 
- Author: Baldi, Pietro et al.
- DOI link: 10.3390/ijms21155484 

- Subject: DiGeorge Syndrome and the Importance of Chromosome 22 
- Author: Kobrynski, Lisa et al.
- DOI link: 10.1007/978-1-4614-4466-4_71

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**