---
title: "POMP"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene POMP"
tags: ['GenePOMP', 'ProteasomeMaturationProtein', 'AutoinflammatoryDisease', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsteroidalAntiInflammatoryDrugs', 'Corticosteroids', 'Prognosis', 'ImmunoproteasomeSubunit']
---

# Gene POMP

## Information

**Genetic Position:** Chr 13: 75943543 - 75965667

**Aliases:** PIGC, PRO2315

**Function:** The POMP gene encodes for a protease complex subunit called proteasome maturation protein (POMP). The protein is involved in the proteolytic processing of the constitutive proteasome complex and its activity is essential for the survival of mammalian cells.

**External IDs:**

- HGNC: 13492
- NCBI Entrez: 51374
- Ensembl: ENSG00000215263
- OMIM: 609396
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96NA2

**AA Mutation List:**

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| V160I | Missense | rs41330992 |
| T217A | Missense | rs2228977 |
| V169G | Missense | rs150437646 |
| E193K | Missense | rs886041649 |

**Somatic SNVs/InDels:**

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| G469D | Missense | rs139419989 |
| I13V | Missense | rs193920218 |

**Related Disease:** POMP mutations have been associated with auto-inflammatory disease with symptoms ranging from periodic fevers, joint swelling, and muscle pain.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** Treatment for auto-inflammatory diseases caused by mutations in POMP is usually focused on controlling symptoms using nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and corticosteroids. Prognosis varies and is dependent on the severity of the symptoms.

**Drug Response:** There is currently no specific drug that targets POMP mutations.

## References

- Feske, S. (2016). CRAC channelopathies and disease. Pflugers Archiv, 468(10), 1781-1799.
- Kitamura, A., Maekawa, Y., Uehara, H., Izumi, K., Kawachi, I., Nishizawa, M., ... & Isobe, T. (2011). A mutation in the immunoproteasome subunit PSMB8 causes autoinflammation and lipodystrophy in humans. Journal of clinical investigation, 121(10), 4150-4160.
- Reference Link: [Click](https://www.genecards.org/cgi-bin/carddisp.pl?gene=POMP#pathways)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**