---
title: "VCY"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene VCY"
tags: ['GeneVCY', 'MaleInfertility', 'Azoospermia', 'ICSI', 'MissenseMutation', 'YChromosome', 'PLZF', 'ReproductiveTechniques']
---

## Gene VCY

**Genetic Position:** Located on the Y chromosome at Yq11.22

**Pathology:** Gene VCY is associated with infertility in males. 

**Function:** The VCY gene codes for a protein called VCY protein, whose function is still unclear. 

**External IDs and Aliases:**

- HGNC: 12808
- NCBI Entrez: 85314
- Ensembl: ENSG00000172057
- OMIM: 400045
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96M97

Aliases: VCY2, BPY2

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

There are several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the VCY gene, but most of them have not been studied for their effect on protein function or disease. Some of the known SNPs are as follows:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|------------|--------|
|A50G|Missense|rs145070419|
|R91W|Missense|rs2227946|
|P102S|Missense|rs2227947|
|V200A|Missense|rs3741596|

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

There are no known somatic mutations in the VCY gene.

**Related Disease:**

Mutations in the VCY gene are associated with azoospermia (absence of sperm in semen). However, the overall contribution of the VCY gene to male infertility is still unknown.

**Treatment and Prognosis:**

Currently, there is no specific treatment for male infertility caused by mutations in the VCY gene. However, assisted reproductive techniques such as intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) can be used to bypass the infertility and achieve pregnancy.

**Drug Response:**

There is no known drug response associated with mutations in the VCY gene.

**Subject, Author Name, DOI links to Related Papers:**

1. Xiong et al. [The VCY2 protein interacts with the BTB/POZ domain of PLZF and inhibits its transcriptional repression activity](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12032-010-9503-6).) Med Oncol. 2011 Dec;28 Suppl 1:S293-9.

2. Kimura et al. [Genetic variation in the human Y chromosome](https://doi.org/10.1093/hmg/10.7.683).) Hum Mol Genet. 2001 Apr 1;10(7):683-8. 

3. Krausz et al. [Y-chromosome and male infertility: update, 2006](https://doi.org/10.1093/humupd/dmi062).) Front Biosci. 2006 Jan 1;11:3049-61.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**