---
title: "ARID4B"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: ARID4B"
tags: ['ARID4B', 'TranscriptionalRegulator', 'ChromatinRemodeling', 'Cancer', 'NeuralTubeDefects', 'IntellectualDisability', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene Information: ARID4B

## Genetic Position:
* Chromosome: 1
* Location: p31.1

## Pathology:
* ARID4B is associated with several diseases such as cancer, neural tube defects, and intellectual disability. 
* It's also implicated in the progression and development of glioma, pancreatic cancer, and breast cancer.

## Function:
ARID4B, also known as RBP1-like protein, is a transcriptional regulator that interacts with chromatin-associated proteins and plays a vital role in chromatin remodeling. It binds to the retinoblastoma protein (Rb) and regulates the expression of genes associated with cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location:
* Gene ID: 51742
* HGNC ID: 16051
* Ensembl ID: ENSG00000066697
* OMIM ID: 607859
* NCBI Entrez ID: 51742
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5VST9 
* Aliases: RBP1L1, RBBP1L1
* Genomic Location: Chr1:56,629,655-56,809,510

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
There are several AA mutations reported for the ARID4B gene, including missense, nonsynonymous, and synonymous mutations. The following are a few notable mutations with their mutation type and dbSNP ID:
* V725A (missense mutation) - rs386352448
* T395I (missense mutation) - rs759153901
* T302T (synonymous mutation) - rs556439728

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
* There are several somatic SNVs/InDels reported for ARID4B.
* One example of a somatic mutation in ARID4B is rs34283556, a single nucleotide variant reported in lung adenocarcinoma.

## Related Diseases:
* Increased expression of ARID4B has been observed in several types of cancers, including glioma, pancreatic cancer, and breast cancer.
* ARID4B has also been associated with neural tube defects and intellectual disability.

## Treatment and Prognosis:
* ARID4B is considered a potential therapeutic target for cancer treatment due to its role in regulating gene expression.
* The prognosis for patients with ARID4B-related diseases depends on the location and severity of the disease.

## Drug Response:
* There is limited information on the drug response of ARID4B-related diseases.

## Related Papers:
1. *Cancer-associated RBBP1 mutation drives nuclear factor-κB signaling-mediated tumor progression* - doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-16-1244.
2. *Critical Role of ARID4B Regulated by MiR-205 in the Migration and Invasion of Prostate Cancer Cells* - doi: 10.1155/2016/9278278. 
3. *Identification of Key Genes for Epithelial Ovarian Cancer Metastasis via Microarray Data* - doi: 10.1155/2018/3470314.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**