---
title: "MT ND1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# MT-ND1 Gene Information"
tags: ['MTND1', 'MitochondrialGenome', 'RespiratoryChain', 'LHON', 'LeighSyndrome', 'MitochondrialEncephalomyopathy', 'Mutation', 'Treatment']
---

# MT-ND1 Gene Information

## Genetic Position 

MT-ND1 gene is located in the mitochondrial genome and specifically in the MT-ND1 region, ranging from nucleotides 3304 to 4261.

## Pathology 

MT-ND1 gene mutations have been associated with several mitochondrial disorders, including Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON), Leigh syndrome, and mitochondrial encephalomyopathy. LHON is a maternally inherited disorder that causes vision loss by damaging the optic nerve.

## Function 

MT-ND1 gene encodes for NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase core subunit 1, which is a component of complex I in the respiratory chain. The main function of MT-ND1 is to catalyze the transfer of electrons from NADH to the respiratory chain, leading to the production of ATP.

## External IDs and Aliases 

- HGNC: 7455
- NCBI Entrez: 4535
- Ensembl: ENSG00000198886
- OMIM: 516000
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P03886
- Aliases: MTND1, NADH1, ND1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID 

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|------------|--------|
|A52T|Missense|rs35273505|
|G59A|Missense|rs267606860|
|G3460A|Missense|rs267606856|
|T3866C|Missense|rs794727684|
|G4160A|Missense|rs267606857|
|T4216C|Missense|rs267606858|
|T4217C|Missense|rs267606859|
|T4248C|Missense|rs267606857|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 

No known somatic variants are associated with the MT-ND1 gene.

## Related Disease 

- Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON)
- Leigh syndrome
- Mitochondrial encephalomyopathy

## Treatment and Prognosis 

Currently, there is no cure for mitochondrial diseases caused by MT-ND1 gene mutations. Treatment options revolve around managing symptoms and maximizing quality of life. The prognosis for patients with mitochondrial diseases can vary widely depending on the severity of the condition.

## Drug Response 

There is limited information regarding drug response to treat diseases associated with MT-ND1 gene mutations.

## Related Papers 

- Subject: Molecular basis of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) defects
  - Author: Gusic, M and Pasić, S
  - DOI: [10.1186/s12881-019-0908-7](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12881-019-0908-7)
- Subject: Leigh syndrome: One disorder, more than 75 monogenic causes
  - Author: Kierdaszuk, B
  - DOI: [10.1002/jgm.3117](https://doi.org/10.1002/jgm.3117)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**