---
title: "TMC1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information - TMC1"
tags: ['TMC1', 'HearingLoss', 'IonChannels', 'GeneticMutation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'Mechanotransduction', 'Research']
---

# Gene Information - TMC1

## Genetic Position
TMC1, transmembrane channel-like 1 gene is located on Chromosome 9 at the position q21.13. It spans a sequence length of approximately 48 kb.

## Pathology
Mutations in TMC1 are associated with autosomal recessive hearing loss (DFNB7/11) and dominant progressive hearing loss (DFNA36). These disorders affect the function of sensory cells called hair cells in the inner ear.

## Function
The TMC1 gene encodes a protein that is involved in the formation of ion channels in hair cells of the inner ear. These channels are important for the conversion of sound waves into electrical signals that are processed by the brain.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 11882
- NCBI Entrez: 117531
- Ensembl: ENSG00000106770
- OMIM: 606706
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NHW7

Aliases:
- DFNA36
- DFNB7
- DFNB7/11
- DFNB11
- DFNB40

## AA Mutation List
|AA Position|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-------------|--------|
|230|Missense|rs104894479|
|233|Missense|rs141586683|
|277|Missense|rs104894480|
|283|Missense|rs104894481|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
There are currently no known somatic mutations in TMC1.

## Related Disease
Mutations in TMC1 are associated with the following disorders:
- Autosomal Recessive Hearing Loss (DFNB7/11)
- Dominant Progressive Hearing Loss (DFNA36)

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for hearing loss caused by mutations in TMC1. Treatment options include hearing aids, cochlear implants, and auditory brainstem implants to assist with hearing. Prognosis for individuals with TMC1-related hearing loss depends on the severity and progression of the disorder.

## Drug Response
There is currently no FDA-approved drug that specifically targets TMC1. However, research is being conducted to find potential treatments for hearing loss caused by mutations in this gene.

## Related Papers
- Subject: TMC1 mutations cause autosomal dominant hearing loss
- Author: Pan B, Géléoc GS, Asai Y, Horwitz GC, Kurima K, Ishikawa K, Kawashima Y, Griffith AJ, Holt JR
- DOI: 10.1126/science.1110359

- Subject: TMC1 and TMC2 are components of the mechanotransduction channel in hair cells of the mammalian inner ear
- Author: Kurima K, Peters LM, Yang Y, Riazuddin S, Ahmed ZM, Naz S, Arnaud D, Drury S, Mo J, Makishima T, Ghosh M, Menon PS, Deshmukh D, Oddoux C, Ostrer H, Khan S, Kaloustian VM, Nance WE, Turlington S, ... Griffith AJ
- DOI: 10.1038/ng1178

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**