---
title: "CYP2C8"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene CYP2C8"
tags: ['CYP2C8', 'DrugMetabolism', 'AdverseDrugReactions', 'PersonalizedMedicine', 'Pharmacogenomics', 'DrugToxicity', 'GeneticVariants', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Information about Gene CYP2C8

### Genetic Position

The gene CYP2C8 is located on chromosome 10 at position 72,279,924-72,300,198 (GRCh38.p13).

### Pathology

Variations in the CYP2C8 gene have been associated with altered drug metabolism and toxicity. Some studies have suggested that certain CYP2C8 variants are associated with increased risk of adverse drug reactions.

### Function

The CYP2C8 gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes, which are involved in the metabolism of drugs and other xenobiotics. CYP2C8 is primarily involved in the metabolism of fatty acid derivatives and a number of drugs, including statins, NSAIDs, and antimalarials.

### External IDs and Aliases

    - HGNC: 2623
    - NCBI Entrez: 1558
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000138115
    - OMIM: 601129
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P10632
    - Aliases: CYPIIC8, CYPIIC9

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

    - R139K (rs11572080)
    - A119S (rs11572103)
    - W106L (rs11572102)
    - R33C (rs11572098)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

Currently, no somatic SNVs/InDels have been found in CYP2C8.

### Related Disease

Variants in CYP2C8 have been associated with several diseases, including fatty liver disease, diabetes, and prostate cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis

Individuals with genetic mutations in CYP2C8 may require personalized drug dosing to avoid adverse drug reactions or to achieve effective treatment outcomes.

### Drug Response

Variants in CYP2C8 have been associated with altered drug metabolism, which can affect drug response and toxicity. For example, individuals with certain CYP2C8 variants may have a higher risk of myopathy when taking statins.

### Related Papers

    - Author name: Zhou SF, Zhou ZW
      Title: Pharmacogenomics of Cytochrome P450 (CYP) Enzymes in Drug Metabolism:  Impact of Molecular Defects and Substrate Diversity on Drug  Response
      DOI: 10.2174/138920008785821029
      
    - Author name: Niemi M
      Title: Role of Cytochrome P450 Enzymes in the Pharmacokinetics of Drugs
      DOI: 10.1111/cts.12075
      
    - Author name: Kacevska M, Robertson GR, Clarke SJ, Liddle C
      Title: Cytochromes P450 and Chemotherapy-Induced Toxicity: Potent Inhibitors of  CYP2C8
      DOI: 10.1158/1535-7163.mct-09-0824

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**