---
title: "PEPD"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene PEPD"
tags: ['PEPDgene', 'ProlidaseDeficiency', 'CollagenBreakdown', 'GeneticDisorder', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'ChronicUlcers', 'RelatedPapers', 'GenomicLocation']
---

# Information about gene PEPD

## Genetic Position
PEPD gene is located on chromosome 19q13.2 with the genomic coordinates of 45,652,261 - 45,683,630 bp. 

## Pathology
PEPD gene is associated with the occurrence of Prolidase deficiency, which is a rare genetic disorder. The disease is characterized by chronic skin ulcers, recurrent infections, and various other symptoms such as mental retardation, splenomegaly, and joint contractures.

## Function for Gene
The PEPD gene encodes for an enzyme called prolidase, which plays a crucial role in the breakdown of collagen and other proteins in the body.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 8819
- NCBI Entrez: 5184
- Ensembl: ENSG00000171858
- OMIM: 170650
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: QPRT_HUMAN
- Aliases: PEP, PEPD, PROLINE DIPEPTIDE CARBOXYPEPTIDASE

## AA Mutation list and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.562G>A; p.Ala188Thr rs1057518815
- c.937C>T; p.Arg313Cys rs28940874

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no somatic mutations reported in the PEPD gene.

## Related Disease
Prolidase deficiency is the only disease associated with the pathogenic variants in the PEPD gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for prolidase deficiency is mainly symptomatic and supportive. Antibiotic therapy is given to treat recurring infections. Wound care is of utmost importance to prevent the onset of chronic ulcers. Management of the disease is lifelong, and prognosis depends on the severity of the condition.

## Drug Response
There is no information available on drug response related to PEPD gene.

## Related Papers
-  "Prolidase deficiency: Overview from genetic basis to clinical practice" by Ozlem Gocmen and Gulcin Bozdayi, Molecular Genetics and Metabolism Reports, doi: 10.1016/j.ymgmr.2017.08.005
- "Clinical picture of prolidase deficiency" by Vinod Scaria et al., Journal of Pediatric Neurosciences, doi: 10.4103/1817-1745.106482

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**