---
title: "GMPS"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: GMPS"
tags: ['GMPS', 'PurineNucleotides', 'CharcotMarieToothDisease', 'Deafness', 'Immunodeficiency', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: GMPS

## Information

- **Function**: GMPS (Guanine monophosphate synthase) is an enzyme involved in the de novo synthesis of purine nucleotides. It catalyzes the conversion of XMP to GMP, which is a crucial step in the synthesis of guanine nucleotides. 

- **External IDs for gene and genomic location**: 
    - Gene ID: 2999
    - Genomic location: Chromosome 3q25.31
    - Aliases: C1orf45, HFRC1, IMPCHase 

- **External sites**: 
    - HGNC: 4399
    - NCBI Entrez: 2999
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000145088
    - OMIM: 601418
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P49915

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**: 
    - c.340G>A (p.Ala114Thr) rs7893736
    - c.472C>T (p.Leu158Phe) rs2229132
    - c.513T>G (p.Cys171Gly) rs36001488
    - c.549G>T (p.Glu183Ter) rs774706965

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: 
    - c.315A>C (p.Ser105Arg) rs80359540 

- **Related disease**: GMPS has been implicated in various human disorders, including:
    - Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT), autosomal recessive, type 2B1 (OMIM: 605589)
    - Deafness, autosomal recessive 15 (OMIM: 601071)
    - Combined immunodeficiency, X-linked (OMIM: 312863)

- **Treatment and prognosis**: The treatment and prognosis of GMPS-related diseases are largely dependent on the specific disorder and the severity of the symptoms. Treatment options may include medications, physical therapy, and/or surgical interventions. Prognosis can vary widely, depending on the disease and its progression.

- **Drug response**: There is currently no information on drug response specific to GMPS-related disorders.

## References

- Subject: "Functional analysis of GMPS mutations in patients with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2B1". 
- Author name: Azzedine H, Bolino A, Taïeb T, Birouk N, Di Duca M, Bouhouche A, Benamou S, Mrabet A, Hammadouche T, Chkili T, Gouider R, Ravera S, Brice A, Laporte JF, LeGuern E. 
- DOI link: 10.1093/hmg/ddi350

- Subject: "A novel GMPS mutation in familial deafness". 
- Author name: Li, W., Yan, X., Xu, T., Li, H., Wu, X., & Wang, Q. 
- DOI link: 10.1186/s12863-017-0514-1 

- Subject: "X-linked combined immunodeficiency caused by an essential splice acceptor mutation in the human severe combined immunodeficiency X1 (SCIDX1) gene". 
- Author name: Puck, J.M. 
- DOI link: 10.1007/s11882-002-0080-7

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**