---
title: "UNC80"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene UNC80"
tags: ['UNC80', 'NALCN', 'neurodevelopmentaldisorder', 'geneticmutation', 'IHPRF2', 'neurologicalimpairment', 'pharmacogenetics', 'ionchannels']
---

## Gene UNC80
UNC80 refers to the Unc-80 homolog gene located on human chromosome 2q34. It encodes a protein containing 2501 amino acids, expressed in the brain, heart, skeletal muscle and placenta, among other tissues. It acts as a component of NALCN (sodium leak channel non-selective protein) channel complexes that are formed by eight subunits and are regulated by G-proteins. UNC80 interacts with other members of the NALCN family to form a functional channel.

### Function for gene
The UNC80 gene functions as a component of NALCN ion channels that have a critical role in neuronal excitability and represent therapeutic targets for pain, addiction, and sleep disorders.

### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- HGNC ID: 24843
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 140728
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000150977
- OMIM ID: 615185
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N4E9

Aliases: KIAA1321, UNC-80

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.10339C>T p.Arg3447Ter, rs747840929
- c.1399A>G p.Gln467Arg, rs759146944
- c.13282G>A p.Gly4430Asp, rs56259264
- c.14743G>A p.Ala4915Thr, rs786205690

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Currently, there are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels with the UNC80 gene.

### Related disease
Biallelic mutations in UNC80 were linked to infantile hypotonia with psychomotor retardation and characteristic facies 2 (IHPRF2) in humans, a rare autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorder. Affected individuals exhibited delayed developmental milestones, reduced muscle tone, and distinctive facial features, as well as other anomalies.

### Treatment and prognosis
There is no targeted treatment available for patients with UNC80-related disorders. Affected individuals usually require lifelong support with regards to their motor, cognitive, and medical needs, which may include physical therapy, speech therapy, and medication management.

### Drug response
Currently, there is no clinically applicable pharmacogenetic information regarding the UNC80 gene.

### Related papers
- **Subject:** Genetic analysis of biallelic UNC80 mutations
- **Author:** Samanta M, Aphimoolphol A, Kodra A, et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1002/ajmg.a.37892

- **Subject:** A rare developmental disorder caused by biallelic mutations in UNC80
- **Author:** Innes AM, Seargeant LE, Balicki M, et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1038/gim.2018.24

- **Subject:** Congenital nephrotic syndrome with neurological impairment associated with UNC80 mutation
- **Author:** Ozaltin F, Li B, Rauhauser A, et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1093/brain/awt064

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**