---
title: "MBD1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: MBD1"
tags: ['MBD1', 'DNAmethylation', 'Transcriptionalregulation', 'Cancer', 'Chemotherapy', 'Prognosis', 'DNAdamageresponse', 'Epigenetics']
---

## Gene: MBD1

### Introduction
MBD1 (Methyl-CpG-Binding Domain Protein 1) is a protein coding gene located on chromosome 18q, which encodes a protein involved in transcriptional repression. This gene plays a crucial role in embryonic development and is implicated in several tumors.

### Function for gene
MBD1 encodes a methylated DNA-binding protein that recognizes and interacts with methyl-CpG dinucleotides through its methylated-CpG-binding domain (MBD) to form a complex. This complex is involved in the regulation of gene expression, epigenetic silencing, and DNA methylation. Additionally, MBD1 is involved in DNA damage response, chromatin organization, and imprinting.

### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- Gene ID: 4152
- Genomic location: Chromosome 18q21.32
- Alias: CXXC3

### External sites
- HGNC: 6809
- NCBI Entrez: 4152
- Ensembl: ENSG00000135285
- OMIM: 603547
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O95983

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.295G>A, p.Arg99His (rs35226931)
- c.490G>A, p.Asp164Asn (rs2277609)
- c.1282G>A, p.Glu428Lys (rs34376835)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.849A>G, p.Gln283Arg (rs2284199)
- c.475C>T, p.Ala159Val (rs2284197)
- c.450C>T, p.Arg150Ter (rs11540772)

### Related diseases
- Breast cancer
- Ovarian cancer
- Colon cancer
- Leukemia

### Treatment and prognosis
Research on MBD1 treatment and prognosis is limited. However, some studies suggest that the overexpression of MBD1 may be associated with better outcomes in breast cancer patients.

### Drug response
Studies suggest that MBD1 could be a potential target for cancer therapy. Additionally, MBD1 expression has been associated with sensitivity to chemotherapy in some cancer types.

### Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers
1. **Subject:** Role of MBD1 in DNA damage response. 
   **Author:** Karin Scharffetter-Kochanek et al. 
   **DOI link:** [10.1359/jbmr.070803]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1359/jbmr.070803))
2. **Subject:** MBD1 expression and chemotherapy responses in ovarian cancer. 
   **Author:** Katherine A. Hoadley et al. 
   **DOI link:** [10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-1234]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-1234))
3. **Subject:** MBD1 and breast cancer prognosis. 
   **Author:** Yongfeng Li et al. 
   **DOI link:** [10.1007/s10549-017-4580-8]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10549-017-4580-8))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**