---
title: "INF2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene INF2"
tags: ['INF2', 'ActinAssembly', 'GeneticMutation', 'RelatedDiseases', 'TreatmentStrategies', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene INF2
### Information:
- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 14q32.33
- **Pathology:** Mutation in this gene is known to cause several diseases (see related diseases below).
- **Function:** This gene encodes a member of the formin family of proteins, which play a role in controlling actin assembly and may be involved in cytokinesis. 
- **Aliases:** CDCD3, FHOD3, FRL1, IMD33, INF2L3, CAEBP2, C9orf24

### External IDs and Sites:
- **Gene ID:** 64440
- **Entrez ID:** 64440
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000100804
- **HGNC ID:** 18761
- **OMIM ID:** 609528
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** Q27J81

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- *c.1093C>T (p.Arg365Ter)* with dbSNP ID rs6671423

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
No somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID reported.

### Related Disease:
- Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis (FSGS)
- Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease (CMT)
- Autosomal Dominant Intermediate Charcot-Marie-Tooth neuropathy type E (CMTDIE)
- Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS)
- spinal muscular atrophy with lower extremity predominance (SMALED)
- Retinitis Pigmentosa (RP)

### Treatment and Prognosis:
There is no known cure for the genetic mutations that cause diseases related to INF2. The treatment strategies usually focus on the symptoms and to slow down the progression of the disease.

### Drug Response:
Currently, drugs targeting INF2 are not available. However, some drugs such as Rituximab, Mycophenolate Mofetil, Cyclosporin A, and Adalimumab have been used to treat diseases caused by INF2 mutations.

### Related Papers (DOI links):
- Sonoda et al. 2019. [INF2-related disease: novel pathogenic mechanisms and strategies for treatment]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00467-019-04272-1))
- Liu et al. 2018. [Mutations in INF2 Are a Major Cause of Autosomal Dominant Segregating Adult-Onset Steroid-Resistant Nephrotic Syndrome]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1681/ASN.2016111176))
- Boyadzhieva et al. 2019. [Targeting the INF2-F-actin pathway in spinal muscular atrophy with respiratory distress type 1]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/braincomms/fcz024))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**