---
title: "SPAST"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Name: SPAST"
tags: ['SPAST', 'HereditarySpasticParaplegia', 'MicrotubuleDynamics', 'NeurologicalCondition', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene Name: SPAST

### Function
The SPAST gene encodes the spastin protein which plays a crucial role in microtubule dynamics, particularly in axonal growth, mitochondrial function and endoplasmic reticulum morphology.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 11268
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 2q34
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000120868
- NCBI Entrez ID: 6683
- OMIM ID: 604277
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9UBP0
- Aliases: FSP2, KIAA1083, SPG4, Spg4a

### AA Mutation list and variant types with dbSNP ID
- p.Thr335Met (rs61754316)
- p.Thr491del (rs1555148588)
- p.Ala510Val (rs587776789)
- p.Arg495Trp (rs28936385)
- p.Leu115Pro (rs121908676)
- p.Leu246Ile (rs113993953)
- p.Gly7Asp (rs397514764)
- p.Lys388Arg (rs28936386)
- Missense variants, deletion, frameshift variants

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is a lack of information for somatic mutations for SPAST gene.

### Related Disease
Haploinsufficiency and mutations in the SPAST gene cause hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP), a rare neurological condition characterized by progressive weakness and spasticity in the lower limbs, and occasionally in the upper limbs and bulbar muscles. 

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for HSP or SPAST gene mutations. Current treatment options are mainly supportive, including physical therapy, gait aids, muscle relaxants, and orthotics. The disease progression is usually slow, and the prognosis depends on the severity of the symptoms, the age of onset, and the specific mutation.

### Drug Response
There is a lack of information regarding drug response to SPAST gene mutations. Some studies suggest that microtubule-targeted drugs, such as vinblastine, may alleviate the symptoms of HSP by promoting microtubule stability and inhibiting axonal degeneration. 

### Related Papers
- Reference paper: Hazan J, Fonknechten N, Mavel D, et al. Spastin, a new AAA protein, is altered in the most frequent form of autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia. Nat Genet. 1999;23(3):296-303. doi:10.1038/15472
- Scuderi C, Stevanin G. Genetics of Hereditary Spastic Paraplegias. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep. 2021;21(3):9. doi:10.1007/s11910-021-01132-7 
- Pensato V, Castellotti B, Gellera C, et al. Overcoming the divide between ataxias and spastic paraplegias: Shared phenotypes, genes, and pathways in dominant SPG3A, SCA12, and SPG4. Mov Disord. 2014;29(5):596-606. doi:10.1002/mds.25809

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**