---
title: "SLC6A5"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene SLC6A5"
tags: ['SLC6A5', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'GlycineTransporter', 'GeneticVariations', 'DrugDevelopment', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'SynapticTransmission']
---

# Information about gene SLC6A5

## Genetic Position
SLC6A5 gene is located on the long (q) arm of chromosome 11 at position 13.2. The gene spans approximately 68.98 kb of DNA.

## Pathology
Variations in the SLC6A5 gene have been associated with different neurological disorders, including infantile hypotonia with psychomotor retardation and characteristic facies type 2 (IHPRF2) and autism spectrum disorder (ASD). 

## Function
SLC6A5 encodes a sodium and chloride-dependent glycine transporter. This transporter is responsible for importing glycine, an inhibitory neurotransmitter, into nerve terminals, controlling glycine levels at inhibitory synapses in the brain.

## External IDs and Aliases 
- External IDs: HGNC:11008, NCBI Entrez Gene: 6537, Ensembl: ENSG00000149448, OMIM: 604159, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P31645.
- Aliases: GAT2, GlyT2

## AA Mutation List
- p.Arg237Trp, rs141145957
- p.Gln52Arg, rs139059517
- p.His496Arg, rs149996910
- p.Tyr444*, rs149667367

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
There are several somatic SNVs reported for SLC6A5 gene.
- rs35093590
- rs57298105
- rs199454278
- rs9603664

## Related Disease
Variations in SLC6A5 gene have been linked with various neurological disorders, including infantile hypotonia with psychomotor retardation and characteristic facies type 2 (IHPRF2), autism spectrum disorder (ASD), and major depressive disorder.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are no specific treatments available for SLC6A5-related disorders. Treatment mainly aims to alleviate symptoms associated with the disorder. The prognosis varies depending on the specific disorder and the severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response
The SLC6A5 transporter is a target for drug development to treat neurological disorders. Some drugs have been shown to decrease glycine uptake by SLC6A5 transporter, including gacyclidine, SSR103800, and NFPS.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Glycine Transporters: Essential Regulators of Synaptic Transmission
  - Author: Supriya Swarnkar
  - DOI: 10.3390/biology10110755

- Subject: Functional characterization of variants in the SLC6A5 gene: Insights from two female siblings with severe intellectual disability 
  - Author: Marta Pinto Lourenço
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.scisignal.2020.03.021

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**