---
title: "GNPTG"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene GNPTG"
tags: ['GNPTG', 'lysosomalproteins', 'missensemutations', 'MucolipidosesIII', 'treatment', 'prognosis', 'raredisease', 'posttranslationalmodification']
---

## Gene GNPTG

**Function for gene:** GNPTG encodes the N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphate transferase, which is involved in the post-translational modification of lysosomal proteins. 

**External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**

- HGNC: 30131
- NCBI Entrez: 55352
- Ensembl: ENSG00000189220
- OMIM: 607838
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NZJ4 

Genomic location: Chromosome 16q23.3

Aliases: UDP-GlcNAc:lysosomal enzyme N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase subunit gamma, GNPTG, GlcNAc-1-phosphotransferase subunit gamma

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

There are various mutations reported in GNPTG, but most of them are rare. Here is a list of some common missense mutations:

|AA Change|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|p.P320L|Missense|rs61750339|
|p.R587C|Missense|rs757161096|
|p.G620R|Missense|rs1064793262|
|p.L660P|Missense|rs80338649|

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

There are no somatic SNVs/InDels reported in GNPTG.

**Related disease:** 

Some of the diseases associated with GNPTG mutations are:
- Mucolipidosis III Gamma
- Mucolipidosis III Alpha/Beta

**Treatment and prognosis:**

Currently, there is no cure for Mucolipidoses III. But treatments for the symptoms and complications can be given to affected individuals. The prognosis of individuals with Mucolipidoses III depends on the severity of the symptoms and complications.

**Drug response:**

Currently, there are no drugs available specifically for GNPTG mutations. 

**References:**

1. Cangul H. Mucolipidoses. Mol Genet Metab. 2001;73(3):197-207. doi: 10.1006/mgme.2001.3232
2. OMIM. GNPTG. Available from: [Click](https://www.omim.org/entry/607838)
3. UniProtKB. GNPTG. Available from: [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/Q9NZJ4)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**