---
title: "TP53"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### TP53 Gene"
tags: ['TP53', 'TumorSuppressor', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'ClinicalTrials', 'Prognosis', 'BiomedicalResearch']
---

### TP53 Gene

##### Gene Location and Aliases

- **Gene Name:** TP53 tumor protein p53
- **Aliases:** TP53, BCC7, LFS1, P53, TRP53 
- **Location:** Chromosome 17, NC_000017.11 (7577082..7590867)
- **HGNC ID:** HGNC:11998 
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000141510
- **NCBI Entrez Gene ID:** 7157
- **OMIM ID:** 191170

##### Gene Function

The TP53 gene contains instructions for the production of a protein called tumor protein p53. This protein acts as a tumor suppressor and promotes cancer prevention by regulating cell division and preventing the formation of tumors.

##### Mutations and Variations

- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**

The TP53 gene has a large number of mutations reported, with more than 18,000 variants listed at NCBI. Some notable mutations include:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-------------|--------|
|p.R337H|Missense|rs28934572|
|p.R248Q|Missense|rs121912664|
|p.R175H|Missense|rs28934573|
|p.R273H|Missense|rs28934581|

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

Several somatic mutations in TP53 have been associated with various cancer types. Examples include:

|AA Mutation|Cancer Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-----------|--------|
|p.R248Q|Squamous Cell Carcinoma|rs121912664|
|p.R248W|Colorectal carcinoma|rs28934574|
|p.R273C|Breast Adenocarcinoma|rs28934580|
|p.R175H|Leukemia|rs121912665|

##### Related Disease

Mutations in TP53 have been linked to various types of cancer, including:

- Li-Fraumeni syndrome
- Breasts Cancer 
- Colorectal and stomach cancer
- Adenocarcinoma
- Leukemia
- Sarcomas

##### Treatment and Prognosis

There is no direct cure or treatment for TP53 mutations, although many cancer treatments have been developed to help control or eliminate tumors that may form due to these mutations.

##### Drug Response

Several drugs are being developed to target TP53 mutations in cancer. Preliminary data from clinical trials with PRIMA-1 and PRIMA-1Met have shown some potential benefits, particularly in cases where TP53 mutations result in loss of function or low expression. 

##### References

- Olivier M, Hollstein M, Hainaut P (April 2010). "TP53 mutations in human cancers: origins, consequences, and clinical use". Cold Spring Harbor Perspectives in Biology. 2 (1): a001008.
- Sullivan KD, Galbraith MD, Andrysik Z, et al. (September 2018). "Identification of a Small Molecule Inhibitor of the TP53–MDM2 Interaction Using a Biophysical High-Throughput Screening Platform". ACS Chemical Biology. 13 (12): 2858-2871.
- Bykov VJN, Issaeva N, Shilov A, et al. (2002). "Restoration of the tumor suppressor function to mutant p53 by a low-molecular-weight compound". Nature Medicine. 8 (3): 282-288.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**