---
title: "TMEM38B"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene TMEM38B"
tags: ['TMEM38B', 'CalciumTransport', 'OsteogenesisImperfecta', 'Brachyolmia', 'MissenseMutation', 'SupportiveCare', 'GeneTherapy', 'ClinicalTrials']
---

# Information about Gene TMEM38B

## Genetic Position
The gene TMEM38B is located on the long arm of chromosome 9 (9q31.1).

## Pathology
Mutations in TMEM38B have been associated with several clinical disorders including autosomal recessive transmission of osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) and autosomal dominant brachyolmia (BRAC). 

## Function
TMEM38B encodes for a transmembrane glycoprotein that is responsible for Calcium (Ca2+) transport across the cell membrane. The protein modulates Calcium homeostasis which is important for multiple biological processes such as muscle contractions, neuronal activity, and more.

## External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- HGNC: 25176
- NCBI Entrez: 64724
- Ensembl: ENSG00000136828
- OMIM: 615273
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q4KMQ2

Aliases: BRI1, BRIL

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- P521A, missense mutation, rs774729893
- E305K, missense mutation, rs201787572
- S344R, missense mutation, rs397515406
- R246W, missense mutation, rs868281852

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no somatic mutations in TMEM38B listed in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
Mutations in TMEM38B have been linked to the development of diseases such as:
- Autosomal recessive osteogenesis imperfecta (OI)
- Autosomal dominant brachyolmia (BRAC) 

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for diseases caused by mutations in TMEM38B is primarily supportive care. However, there are ongoing clinical trials for novel treatments of OI, including gene therapies and stem-cell treatments.

## Drug Response
Currently, there are no known drug treatments or targeted drug therapies for diseases associated with mutations in TMEM38B.

## Related Papers
1. Cho TJ, Lee KE, Lee SK, et al. A single recurrent mutation in the 5'-UTR of IFITM5 causes osteogenesis imperfecta type V. Am J Hum Genet. 2012;91(2):343-348. doi:10.1016/j.ajhg.2012.06.005
2. Marini JC, Forlino A, Cabral WA, et al. Consortium for osteogenesis imperfecta mutations in the helical domain of type I collagen: regions rich in lethal mutations align with collagen binding sites for integrins and proteoglycans. Hum Mutat. 2007;28(3):209-221. doi:10.1002/humu.20417
3. Jacenko O. Altlast? Osteogenesis imperfecta: Collagen mutation or altered collagen packing?. Crit Rev Eukaryot Gene Expr. 2010;20(4):321-330. doi:10.1615/CritRevEukarGeneExpr.v20.i4.10

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**