---
title: "ETNK1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: ETNK1"
tags: ['ETNK1', 'Phosphoethanolamine', 'MembraneStructure', 'Cancer', 'MissenseMutation', 'SynonymousMutation', 'Phosphatidylethanolamine', 'UnfoldedProteinResponse']
---

# Gene: ETNK1

## Information

- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 12 (12q13.2)
- **Function:** ETNK1 encodes a kinase enzyme that is responsible for phosphorylating ethanolamine to form phosphoethanolamine in the biosynthesis of phosphatidylethanolamine. It plays a crucial role in the maintenance of cellular membrane structure and function.

- **External IDs and Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 20426
    - NCBI Entrez: 80155
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000135404
    - OMIM: 609005
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HCM9

- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:** 

| AA Position | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|------------|
| D18N | missense | rs757670224 |
| R160C | missense | rs369319441 |
| C301G | synonymous | rs3749487 |

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for ETNK1 in dbSNP.

- **Related Diseases:**
    - No diseases have been linked to mutations in ETNK1. However, altered expression levels of ETNK1 have been observed in certain cancers, such as pancreatic cancer and osteosarcoma.

- **Treatment and Prognosis:**
    - As no diseases have been linked to mutations in ETNK1, there are no specific treatments or prognoses associated with it.

- **Drug Response:**
    - As no diseases have been linked to mutations in ETNK1, there are no specific drugs that target it.

## References

- Stukey, J., Carman, G. M. (2008). "Identification of a novel phosphatase sequence motif." Protein Sci. 17 (4): 664–668. doi:10.1110/ps.082718308
- Westhoff, M. A., et al. (2008). "Phosphatidylethanolamine synthesis is essential for highly proliferating cells and involved in the unfolded protein response." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 87 (5): 257–267. doi:10.1016/j.ejcb.2007.11.005
- NCBI Entrez Gene: ETNK1 
  ([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/80155))
- UniProtKB: Q9HCM9
  ([Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/Q9HCM9))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**