---
title: "DGUOK"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene DGUOK"
tags: ['DGUOK', 'MitochondrialDNADepletionSyndrome', 'mtDNA', 'Mutation', 'Pathology', 'Function', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene DGUOK

### Genetic Position
DGUOK (Deoxyguanosine Kinase) is located on chromosome 2 (2p13.1).

### Pathology
DGUOK mutations are associated with mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome (MDS), which is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a reduction in mtDNA copy numbers in affected tissues, leading to impaired oxidative phosphorylation and energy production in mitochondria. MDS is a progressive disease that affects multiple organ systems and presents as a wide spectrum of symptoms, including hepatic dysfunction, neuromuscular disorders, developmental delays, and renal tubulopathy.

### Function
DGUOK encodes a mitochondrial protein that plays an essential role in the phosphorylation of deoxyribonucleosides, which is a crucial step involved in the mitochondrial DNA replication and maintenance of mtDNA nucleotide pools. DGUOK catalyzes the phosphorylation of deoxyguanosine (dG) to its monophosphate (dGMP), thereby facilitating mtDNA synthesis.

### External IDs
- HGNC: 2927
- NCBI Entrez: 1716
- Ensembl: ENSG00000152556
- OMIM: 601465
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O00148

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.R50Q (rs28939079)
- p.R83H (rs104894356)
- p.V112M (rs121917804)
- p.C172Y (rs28939078)
- p.R246Q (rs28939077)
- p.S264F (rs773135588)
- p.G271V (rs150677383)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no information on somatic mutations in DGUOK available at dbSNP.

### Related Disease
- Mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome, hepatocerebral form (MDS-HC)
- Mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome, infantile onset spinocerebellar ataxia (MDSICSA)
- Mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome, myopathic type (MDS-MP)

### Treatment and Prognosis
There are no effective treatments for DGUOK-related MDS. Prognosis depends on the onset and severity of symptoms and may be fatal in some cases.

### Drug Response
There is no information available on drug response related to DGUOK mutations.

### Related Papers
- El-Hattab AW, Scaglia F. Mitochondrial DNA depletion syndromes: review and updates of genetic basis, manifestations, and therapeutic options. Neurotherapeutics. 2013;10(2):186-198. doi:10.1007/s13311-013-0177-x
- Ronchi D, Garone C, Bordoni A, et al. Next-generation sequencing reveals DGUOK mutations in adult patients with mitochondrial DNA multiple deletions. Brain. 2012;135(11):3404-3415. doi:10.1093/brain/aws253.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**