---
title: "MID1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene MID1"
tags: ['MID1', 'OpitzSyndrome', 'Ubiquitination', 'Microtubules', 'GeneticMutation', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'MidlineStructures', 'QualityOfLife']
---

## Gene MID1

- **Function:** The MID1 gene encodes a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) protein family. This protein contains three domains - a RING finger domain, a B-box type 1 and type 2 domains - and it is involved in the ubiquitination pathway. The MID1 protein interacts with microtubules, which are essential for different cell functions.
- **External IDs:** 
    - Gene ID: 4281 
    - Genomic location:  Xp22.12
    - Aliases: OPHN1, MRX79, Opitz G/BBB syndrome, type I, X-linked, Opitz G/BBB syndrome, type II, X-linked, FG syndrome 5
- **External sites:**
    - HGNC: 7384
    - NCBI Entrez: 4281
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000073710
    - OMIM: 300552
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O15344

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** 
    - c.1219G>A (p.Arg407Gln) - rs28941797
    - c.1037A>G (p.Asn346Ser) - rs192885112
    - c.809C>T (p.Arg270Cys) - rs796052972
    - c.2202G>A (p.Ala734Thr) - rs104894301
    - c.1583G>A (p.Gly528Ser) - rs794727999

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** None reported in the COSMIC database.

- **Related disease:** Mutations in the MID1 gene can cause X-linked Opitz G/BBB syndrome (OS). This syndrome affects the development of midline structures such as the face, larynx, and genitalia, leading to abnormalities such as cleft lip and palate, hypertelorism, hypospadias, and laryngeal cleft. The severity of the disease is highly variable, from mild to severe cases, including fatality in some patients.

- **Treatment and prognosis:** Currently, there is no cure for Opitz G/BBB syndrome. Treatment is mainly supportive, focusing on managing the symptoms and complications. Several clinical therapies, such as surgery, hearing aids, speech therapy, and special education programs, can help improve the patient's quality of life.

- **Drug response:** None reported.

- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
    - "Mutations in the X-linked protein MID1 are responsible for Opitz G/BBB syndrome", Quaderi et al., 1997. DOI: 10.1038/ng0897-285
    - "Molecular genetic pathways in X-linked Opitz syndrome", Quaderi et al., 2001. DOI: 10.1086/318719
    - "The mystery of opitz G/BBB syndrome unraveled", Gajera, Shah and Aarthi, 2019. DOI: 10.4103/ijo.IJO_2213_18

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**