---
title: "BCL2L2 PABPN1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: BCL2L2-PABPN1"
tags: ['BCL2L2-PABPN1', 'GeneFusion', 'AntiApoptoticProtein', 'GenomicLocation', 'RelatedDisease', 'DrugResponse', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: BCL2L2-PABPN1

## Genomic location and aliases

- **Genomic location:** This gene is located on chromosome 16 at position 16q21 and spans 372.6kb.
- **Aliases:** BCLw-S, Diva, BCL2L2-PA2G4, PABPC1L2, BCLW, PPP, PABPL2, GAATTL6, PABPN1

## Gene Function

BCL2L2-PABPN1 is a fusion gene, formed through a translocation event between the BCL2L2 and PABPN1 genes. The fusion protein is thought to play a role in cellular apoptosis and can function as an anti-apoptotic protein. 

## External IDs

- **HGNC ID:** HGNC:30027
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000253618
- **NCBI Entrez ID:** 100132758
- **OMIM ID:** 616465
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** Not yet assigned. 

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

No mutations have been reported in this fusion gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no known SNVs or InDels in the BCL2L2-PABPN1 fusion gene. 

## Related Disease

Few studies have reported a direct connection between this gene fusion and any specific disease. 

## Treatment and Prognosis

As there is no direct connection of BCL2L2-PABPN1 with any disease, hence it is difficult to suggest any specific treatment and prognosis. 

## Drug response

There are no drugs assigned for this fusion gene as of yet.

## Related papers

- *Fusion of BCL2L2-PABPN1 in t(14;16) positive multiple myeloma.* DOI: 10.3324/haematol.2014.102913
- *Analysis of the genomic sequences flanking ETV6/TEL breakpoints in children with pre-B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and characterization of the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) as a recipient gene in t(2;5)*
DOI: 10.1038/sj/cr/7290036

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**