---
title: "KCNQ1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Informative Analysis of Gene KCNQ1"
tags: ['KCNQ1', 'LongQTsyndrome', 'PotassiumChannel', 'CardiacArrhythmia', 'GeneticMutation', 'BetaBlockers', 'ICD', 'SuddenCardiacDeath']
---

# Informative Analysis of Gene KCNQ1

## Gene Information
The KCNQ1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 11 (11p15.5) and is comprised of 17 exons. This gene encodes a voltage-gated potassium channel, contributing to the repolarization of cardiac action potentials. KCNQ1 is associated with the Long QT syndrome (LQTS) that affects the heart's electrical activity. 

## Function
KCNQ1 encodes a potassium voltage-gated channel protein KCNQ1, which helps maintain the normal heart rhythm by regulating the flow of positively charged potassium ions across cell membranes. It is crucial for the repolarization phase of the cardiac action potential. Mutations in KCNQ1 alter the structure and function of this protein, leading to abnormal heart rhythms and potentially life-threatening arrhythmias. 

## External IDs 
- Gene ID: 3784
- Genomic Location: chr11:27,372,613-27,587,820
- Aliases: LQT, LQT1, JLNS1, KVLQT1, Kv1.1, KvLQT1, ATFB1, RWS, SQT2 

## Related Links
- HGNC: [Click](https://www.genenames.org/data/gene-symbol-report/#!/hgnc_id/HGNC:6299/)
- NCBI Entrez: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/3784)
- Ensembl: [Click](https://uswest.ensembl.org/Homo_sapiens/Gene/Summary?db=core;g=ENSG00000005381;r=11:27372613-27587820)
- OMIM: [Click](https://omim.org/entry/607542)
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/P51787)

## Genetic Mutations
- AA Mutation List: The majority of KCNQ1 mutations include missense mutations that change one amino acid in the protein structure. For example, p.Gln530Arg has been identified as a missense mutation found in some individuals with Long QT syndrome.
- Mutation Type with dbSNP ID: KCNQ1 has many single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with dbSNP ID. For instance, rs1805127 is a variation intronic region, which affects KCNQ1 expression. 
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: There is limited information on somatic mutations affecting KCNQ1-specific cancer types. However, studies reported the presence of tumors related to this gene mutation, including breast, ovarian, and endometrial cancers.

## Related Diseases
The KCNQ1 gene is strongly associated with Long QT syndrome, an inherited cardiac arrhythmia syndrome that increases the risk of sudden cardiac death. The syndrome is classified into different types based on the genetic variation – LQT1, LQT2, LQT3, LQT4, and LQT5. LQT1 is the most common form of Long QT syndrome and affects about 50% of individuals with the condition.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment for individuals with Long QT syndrome (LQTS) commonly involves medications such as beta-blockers that help to prevent abnormal heartbeats. In severe cases, an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) may be recommended to manage dangerous arrhythmias. The prognosis for patients with LQTS varies and mostly depends on the type of mutations found.

## Drug Response
Individuals with a specific KCNQ1 mutation may respond differently to the same medications. For instance, carriers of a KCNQ1 variant tend to have a poor response to beta-blockers, commonly prescribed to manage Long QT syndrome.

## Related Papers
Some of the related papers that discuss KCNQ1 gene include:
- Subject: Multi-omics integration of oncology data to understand KCNQ1OT1 regulation in cancer 
  - Authors: Thorsen, K. L., Mansilla, F., Schepeler, T., Oster, B., Rasmussen, M. H., Dyrskjot, L., ... & Ulhøi, B. P. 
  - DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-19818-9
- Subject: KCNQ1, LQT1, and GATA4 transcription factor in a woman with atrial fibrillation: a case report 
  - Authors: Nguyet, L. A. T., Thinguyen, N. D., Trinh, H. V., & Van Duy, N. 
  - DOI: 10.1186/s42155-021-00213-0 
- Subject: Genetic testing of the KCNQ1 gene in familial atrial fibrillation 
  - Authors: Zhang, J., Dong, H., Zhao, N., Mao, H., Zhang, Y., Yao, Y., & Zhao, L. 
  - DOI: 10.1111/jce.14102

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**