---
title: "CD3D"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: CD3D"
tags: ['CD3D', 'T-cell', 'immunodeficiency', 'mutation', 'signaltransduction', 'boneMarrowTransplantation', 'geneTherapy', 'prognosis']
---

# Gene: CD3D

## Information
CD3D is a gene that is located on chromosome 11 in humans. The protein encoded by this gene is a subunit of the T-cell receptor-CD3 complex. This complex plays a crucial role in the activation of T-cells during the immune response. 

## Function
The CD3D gene encodes a T-cell surface antigen that is involved in signal transduction. It plays a critical role in the development and activation of T-cells.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 1677
- NCBI Entrez: 915
- Ensembl: ENSG00000152941
- OMIM: 186790
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P04234

Aliases: T3D, TCREC, CD3-DELTA, CD3 antigen, delta polypeptide

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Pro122Leu, Missense, rs138813071
- p.Pro159His, Missense, rs137852029
- p.Val183Leu, Missense, rs137852030

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs370067348
- rs377946767
- rs374956836

## Related Disease
CD3D mutations have been associated with immunodeficiency disorders such as the CD3D-associated severe combined immunodeficiency. This is a rare genetic disorder that affects the immune system, leading to recurrent infections.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment of CD3D-associated severe combined immunodeficiency involves bone marrow transplantation or gene therapy. The prognosis depends on the severity of the disease and the success of treatment.

## Drug Response
There is limited information on drug response related to CD3D mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: CD3D-associated severe combined immunodeficiency
- Author: Pessach IM, Notarangelo LD.
- DOI link: 10.1007/978-3-030-57142-2_16

- Subject: CD3D gene analysis
- Author: Garcia-Ortiz JE, Ramírez-Barbosa E, Santoyo-Sánchez A, Mogica-Martínez D, Sánchez-Zapata MI, De-Loera-Hernández M, Sánchez-Campos LN, Sánchez-Pérez HJ, Salcedo-Lozada P.
- DOI link: 10.1371/journal.pone.0234186

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**