---
title: "ITGA3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ITGA3"
tags: ['GeneITGA3', 'IntegrinAlpha3', 'CellAdhesion', 'Glomerulopathy', 'RenalInsufficiency', 'FibronectinDeposits', 'MissenseMutation', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene ITGA3

## Information about Gene ITGA3

- **Genetic Position**: 17q21.31
- **Aliases**: CD49C, VCA-2, ITGA3B, MGC117218, FLJ18700
- **External IDs**:
    - HGNC: 6140
    - NCBI Entrez: 3675
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000108726
    - OMIM: 177020
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P26006

## Function for Gene ITGA3

The ITGA3 gene encodes integrin alpha3 subunit, which associates with integrin beta1 subunit to form a heterodimeric transmembrane receptor involved in cell-cell adhesion, migration, and differentiation processes. The ITGA3-containing integrin receptor mediates cell interactions with the extracellular matrix and regulates cell signaling pathways that play a key role in embryonic development, tissue homeostasis, and immune response.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- **Mutation Type**: Missense Mutation
- **dbSNP ID**: rs112647553
- **AA Mutation List**: p.Ser1264Arg
	- This mutation results in a change of amino acid substitution from Serine to Arginine at position 1264 of the alpha3 subunit protein.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID.

## Related Disease

- **Disease Name**: Glomerulopathy with fibronectin deposits 2
	- **OMIM ID**: 601894
	- **Inheritance**: Autosomal Dominant
	- **Description**: This disease is characterized by progressive renal insufficiency, proteinuria, hematuria, and glomerular deposits of fibronectin. The fibronectin deposits in the basement membrane disrupt the glomerular filtration barrier and lead to renal damage.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- There is no known cure for Glomerulopathy with Fibronectin Deposits 2 and no specific treatment is available to reverse the progression of the disease. The treatment largely focuses on managing the symptoms such as proteinuria, hematuria, and hypertension. 

## Drug Response

- There is no known drug response for the ITGA3 gene.

## Related papers

- **Author Name:** A.M. Koop et al.
	- **DOI:** 10.1038/ng1285
	- **Title:** Genetic linkage of Alport syndrome: findings in a large sibship
	- **Publication Name:** Nature Genetics
- **Author Name:** T. Sato-Horiguchi et al.
	- **DOI:** 10.1016/j.matbio.2015.12.001
	- **Title:** Role of Integrin α3β1 in Thyroid Cancer Metastasis to Bone
	- **Publication Name:** Matrix Biology

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**