---
title: "AADAC"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: AADAC"
tags: ['AADAC', 'N-acetyltransferase', 'Mutation', 'DrugMetabolism', 'CancerRisk', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticPolymorphisms', 'HeroinDependence']
---

## Gene: AADAC

### Information
- Function: This gene encodes for an enzyme called N-acetyltransferase which is responsible for metabolizing drugs and other xenobiotics.
- External IDs: HGNC: 198, NCBI Entrez: 13, Ensembl: ENSG00000144441, OMIM: 600338, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P22760.
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 3q25.1
- Aliases: N-acetyltransferase, Arylacetamide Deacetylase

### Mutations
- AA Mutation list: Several mutations have been reported in AADAC including S90L, G98R, R113H, C117Y, and G143R.
- Mutation type: Missense
- dbSNP ID: rs1799853 (S90L), rs1799852 (G98R), rs1805313 (R113H), rs1805314 (C117Y), rs267606794 (G143R).

### Related Disease
- Some studies have suggested a link between AADAC polymorphisms and the risk of developing liver, bladder, and colorectal cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- There is currently no specific treatment or prognosis related to mutations in AADAC.

### Drug Response
- Studies have suggested that certain polymorphisms in AADAC may affect the metabolism of certain drugs such as amphetamine and cocaine.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Association between genetic polymorphisms of arylacetamide deacetylase and the risks of both primary liver cancer and hepatic cirrhosis in a Chinese population
- Author name: Hong-Guang Su et al.
- DOI link: [10.1002/ijc.31148](https://doi.org/10.1002/ijc.31148)

- Subject: The arylacetamide deacetylase gene (AADAC) is associated with heroin dependence
- Author name: Yan Sun et al.
- DOI link: [10.1016/j.pbb.2013.10.022](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pbb.2013.10.022)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**