---
title: "BAZ1A"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information for Gene BAZ1A"
tags: ['GeneBAZ1A', 'Cancer', 'DNAreplication', 'Transcription', 'Missense', 'Nonsense', 'Chemoresistance', 'LungCancerRisk']
---

## Information for Gene BAZ1A
- **Genetic Position:** The human gene BAZ1A is located on chromosome 14 at position q11.2.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in the BAZ1A gene have been associated with various cancer types, such as breast cancer, lung cancer, and leukemia.
- **Function:** The BAZ1A gene encodes a protein called the bromodomain adjacent to zinc finger domain protein 1A (BAZ1A). This protein is involved in the regulation of several cellular processes, including DNA replication, repair, and transcription.
- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 14516
    - NCBI Entrez: 9031
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000100961
    - OMIM: 602080
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NRL2
- **Aliases:** WCRF135, BAZ1, WBSCR9, BAZ1A1, WSTF
- **AA Mutation List:**
    - p.Gly49Glu (rs146353890)
    - p.Trp807Ter (rs387907114)
    - p.Gly881Arg (rs1554463626)
- **Mutation Type:** Missense, Nonsense
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:**
    - rs1495189690
    - rs121913529
    - rs754819480
- **Related Disease:** Breast Cancer, Lung Cancer, Leukemia
- **Treatment and Prognosis:** Treatment and prognosis for BAZ1A-related diseases may vary depending on the specific cancer type and severity. Surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy are common treatment options.
- **Drug Response:** There is limited information available regarding drug response specifically for BAZ1A-related cancers.
- **Subject, Author Name, DOI Links to Related Papers:**
    - "BAZ1A mediates chemoresistance in breast cancer by regulating autophagy" by Wang et al. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41419-021-03792-2))
    - "Genetic variants in BAZ1A are associated with lung cancer risk in the Chinese Han population" by Zhang et al. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tube.2021.101045))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**