---
title: "GRIN2A"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene GRIN2A"
tags: ['GRIN2A', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'NMDAReceptors', 'MissenseMutations', 'Epilepsy', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'IntellectualDisability', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

## Gene GRIN2A
### Information
- **Function:** The gene GRIN2A encodes for a subunit of a receptor for glutamate, a neurotransmitter involved in memory and learning.
- **External IDs and Aliases:**
    - HGNC ID: 4564
    - NCBI Entrez: 2904
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000142173
    - OMIM: 138253
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q12879
- **Genomic location:** Chromosome 16q21
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|p.Arg19Cys|Missense|rs104895121|
|p.Arg26His|Missense|rs376491520|
|p.Val61Gly|Missense|rs373978424|
|p.Ala637Thr|Missense|rs75603692|

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** None reported
- **Related disease:** Mutations in GRIN2A have been associated with a variety of neurological disorders including epilepsy, autism spectrum disorder, and intellectual disability.
- **Treatment and prognosis:** As the involvement of GRIN2A in neurological disorders is still being studied, there is no specific treatment or prognosis related to GRIN2A mutations.
- **Drug response:** None reported
- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**

1. Endele, S., Rosenberger, G., Geider, K., Popp, B., Tamer, C., Stefanova, I., ... & Horn, D. (2010). Mutations in GRIN2A and GRIN2B encoding regulatory subunits of NMDA receptors cause variable neurodevelopmental phenotypes. Nature genetics, 42(11), 1021-1026. doi: 10.1038/ng.677
2. Carvill, G. L., Regan, B. M., Yendle, S. C., O'Roak, B. J., Lozovaya, N., Bruneau, N., ... & Mefford, H. C. (2013). GRIN2A mutations cause epilepsy-aphasia spectrum disorders. Nature genetics, 45(9), 1073-1076. doi: 10.1038/ng.2727

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**