---
title: "SNORD115 1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene SNORD115-1"
tags: ['SNORD115-1', 'snoRNA', 'PraderWilliSyndrome', 'AngelmanSyndrome', 'genomicimprinting', 'ribosomalRNA', 'geneticdisorders', 'RNAprocessing']
---

# Information about gene SNORD115-1

## Genetic position
SNORD115-1 is located on chromosome 15q11-q13. This region is known for its genomic imprinting, meaning that certain genes are expressed in a parent-of-origin specific manner.

## Function
SNORD115-1 is a small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA) that plays a role in the processing and modification of other RNAs, particularly ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs). Specifically, SNORD115-1 guides the 2'-O-methylation of the ribose at position 1205 of 18S rRNA.

## External IDs and aliases
- HGNC ID: HGNC:32908
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 693622
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000283647
- OMIM ID: 609151
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: SNOR1A

Aliases: SNORD115, SNORD115-1A, SNORD115a, SNORD115-A, SNORID115

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are no reported amino acid (AA) mutations in SNORD115-1.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels in SNORD115-1.

## Related diseases
SNORD115-1 is not directly associated with any diseases. However, its location on the imprinted region of chromosome 15 has been linked to several genetic disorders. For example, loss of SNORD115-1 (as well as additional genes in this region) due to a deletion on the maternal chromosome is associated with Prader-Willi syndrome, while loss of the same genes on the paternal chromosome leads to Angelman syndrome.

## Treatment and prognosis
There are currently no treatments or prognoses specific to SNORD115-1.

## Drug response
There are currently no drugs targeting SNORD115-1 or related disorders.

## Related papers
- Subject: Loss of the snoRNA SNORD115 causes Prader-Willi syndrome with a physique, behavior and endocrine response phenotype
- Author: Ding et al.
- DOI: 10.1038/ng.292
- Link: [Click](https://www.nature.com/articles/ng.292)

- Subject: Molecular mechanisms and clinical manifestations of Angelman syndrome
- Author: Mabb et al.
- DOI:  10.1016/j.neuron.2011.07.013
- Link: [Click](https://www.cell.com/neuron/fulltext/S0896-6273(11)00665-4)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**