---
title: "OCLN"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene OCLN"
tags: ['OCLN', 'TightJunctionProtein', 'GeneMutation', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

# Information about Gene OCLN

## Genomic Position and Aliases
The OCLN gene is located on chromosome 5q13, spanning a region of about 3 kb. It is also known by other names such as occludin, hEoC, and PPP1R115.

## Function 
The OCLN gene encodes a tight junction protein called occludin, which is involved in maintaining the barrier function of epithelial and endothelial cells. Occludin plays a crucial role in regulating the permeability of cell layers and preventing the diffusion of solutes across epithelial and endothelial membranes.

## External IDs
- HGNC ID: 10746
- NCBI Entrez ID: 4950
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000116168
- OMIM ID: 601851
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q16625

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several known single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the OCLN gene, most of which are benign. However, some SNPs have been linked to certain diseases. Some examples are:

Mutation Type | AA Mutation | dbSNP ID | Disease 
--- | --- | --- | ---
Missense | Ser228Phe | rs145239523 | Crohn's Disease
Missense | Ala236Thr | rs2236609 | Crohn's Disease
Missense | Asp275Asn | rs10478685 | Schizophrenia

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Somatic mutations in the OCLN gene have been reported in various cancer types such as liver, lung, colorectal and breast cancer. Some examples of somatic mutations found in OCLN gene are:

Mutation Type | dbSNP ID | Cancer Type
--- | --- | ---
Missense | rs146571824 | Breast Cancer
Frameshift | rs1554233053 | Colorectal Cancer
Splice site | rs152479817 | Lung Cancer

## Related Disease
Some of the diseases associated with OCLN gene mutations are Crohn's disease, schizophrenia, and cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there are no specific treatments targeting occludin or OCLN gene mutations. However, the management of some diseases linked to OCLN gene mutations such as Crohn's disease and cancer involve various therapies such as surgery, chemotherapy or immunotherapy. The prognosis for individuals with OCLN gene mutations depends on the severity and type of the associated disease.

## Drug Response
There is limited information about the drug response of OCLN gene mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Association Between Polymorphisms in OCLN Gene and Crohn's Disease in a Chinese Han Population
Author: Shiming Yang, et al.
DOI: 10.4238/gmr16019570

- Subject: Germline mutations in cancer susceptibility genes in a large series of unselected breast cancer patients
Author: I. Blanco et al.
DOI: 10.1002/ijc.29183

- Subject: Genome wide association and linkage analysis identified two susceptibility loci for schizophrenia in Czech population
Author: Jan Novotný, et al.
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0202033

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**