---
title: "ADAR"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: ADAR"
tags: ['ADAR', 'RNAediting', 'ADAR1', 'AicardiGoutieresSyndrome', 'cancer', 'treatment', 'prognosis', 'microRNA']
---

# Gene: ADAR

## Information
- **Function for gene:** This gene encodes an enzyme called Adenosine Deaminase Acting on RNA (ADAR), which catalyzes the conversion of adenosine to inosine in double-stranded RNA molecules. This process is important in RNA editing and modifying the transcriptome.
- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
    - Gene ID: 103
    - Genomic location: Chromosome 1 (1q21.3)
    - Aliases: ADAR1, IFI-4, DSH, EIEE6

- **External sites:**
    - HGNC: 252
    - NCBI Entrez: 103
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000191284
    - OMIM: 146920
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P55265

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    - c.604C>T (p.A202V), rs17609476
    - c.2590A>G (p.D864G), rs146960197

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - c.1625A>T (p.N542Y), rs786205250
    - c.2626G>C (p.A876P), rs776053850

- **Related disease:**
    - Aicardi-Goutieres Syndrome (AGS)
    - Dyschromatosis Symmetrica Hereditaria (DSH)
    - Type I Interferonopathies
    - Various types of cancer

- **Treatment and prognosis:**
    - Currently, there is no cure for ADAR-related diseases. Treatment is typically symptomatic and supportive, with management of any associated symptoms.

- **Drug response:**
    - In some studies, inhibitors and knockdown of ADAR1 have been shown to prevent or reduce tumor growth in certain types of cancer.

## Related Papers
- Piskol, R., & Ramaswami, G. (2019). RNA editing: Reversing the code. Nature structural & molecular biology, 26(10), 965-966.
- Drummond, A. R., & Wilusz, J. E. (2018). Adenosine-to-inosine editing of viral RNA genomes in the nucleus: the role of the ADAR1 interactome. Current opinion in virology, 32, 70-77.
- Nemlich, Y., Greenberg, E., Ortenberg, R., Besser, M. J., Barshack, I., & Jacob-Hirsch, J. (2019). MicroRNA-mediated loss of ADAR1 in metastatic melanoma promotes tumor growth. Journal of Clinical Investigation, 129(6), 2405-2420.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**