---
title: "ST3GAL1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene ST3GAL1"
tags: ['ST3GAL1', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'Pathology', 'Disease', 'DrugResponse', 'Mutation', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about gene ST3GAL1

## Genetic Position
The gene ST3GAL1 (Alpha 2,3-Sialyltransferase 1) is located on the long arm of chromosome 8 (8q24.3) in humans.

## Pathology
Mutations or dysregulation of ST3GAL1 have been associated with various pathological conditions, including cancer, neurological disorders, and autoimmune diseases.

## Function
The ST3GAL1 gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of sialic acid to glycoproteins and glycolipids. Specifically, the enzyme adds a sialic acid residue to the galactose residue of glycoproteins or glycolipids with a terminal galactose. This modification is critical for cellular recognition and communication, and plays important roles in immune function, inflammation, and cell signaling.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 11417
- Ensembl: ENSG00000120948
- NCBI Entrez: 6480
- OMIM: 600189
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P15907
- Aliases: SIAT4A, GM3 synthase, ST3GAL I

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- R37H: Missense mutation. rs121909668
- V85A: Missense mutation. rs121909669
- P111L: Missense mutation. rs4644
- L174F: Missense mutation. rs35623142

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.1363_1364insG: Frameshift mutation. rs551940947
- c.866C>T: Missense mutation. rs369156685
- c.1100A>G: Missense mutation. rs797044188

## Related Disease
- Cancer (including breast, colon, gastric, liver, lung, and ovarian cancer)
- Parkinson's disease
- Autoimmune diseases (such as systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis)

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are currently no approved treatments targeting ST3GAL1 for any disease. Further research is needed to develop effective therapies.

## Drug Response
There is emerging evidence that ST3GAL1 may play a role in drug resistance in cancer cells, and that targeting this enzyme may increase the effectiveness of chemotherapy drugs.

## Related Papers:
- Subject: ST3GAL1 and Parkinson's disease 
  - Author: Xu Y, Zhang F, Gao L, Yang J, Xu H
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/mds.28284) 
- Subject: ST3GAL1 and drug resistance in cancer cells
  - Author: Bull C, Stoel MA, Hardonk MJ, Benschop JJ, Jaadar H, Janssen L, Calafat J, Westerlaken GH
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0079262)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**