---
title: "PARD3B"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PARD3B"
tags: ['PARD3B', 'CellPolarity', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'PrognosticMarker', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticInformation']
---

# Information about Gene PARD3B

## Genetic Position
The PARD3B (Par-3 Family Cell Polarity Regulator Beta) gene is located on chromosome 2, specifically on the 2q14.2 genomic position.

## Pathology and Function
The PARD3B gene is involved in cell polarity, cell junctions, and cytoskeletal organization, and it's associated with several types of cancer. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 18497
- NCBI Entrez: 84706
- Ensembl: ENSG00000172965
- OMIM: 610092
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8TEW8

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Gln1309Ter (stop gained) - rs771438336
- p.Tyr287Cys (missense) - rs146300608

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.242 + 1G > A - rs746906045
- c.1430C > T - rs756298833

## Related Disease
The PARD3B gene is associated with several types of cancer, including lung cancer, colorectal cancer, ovarian cancer, and gastric cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment for PARD3B-related cancer. Treatment options would depend on the type and stage of the cancer. PARD3B expression levels could be used as a prognostic marker for some types of cancer.

## Drug Response
There is no specific information available on drug response related to PARD3B mutations.

## Related Papers

- Sunwoo, J., Park, S. Y., Lee, E., & Lim, Y. T. (2018). TRAIL signaling modulation by PARD3B in cancer cells. [[Click](https://doi.org/10.1515/hmbci-2017-0114](https://doi.org/10.1515/hmbci-2017-0114))
- Nishimura, Y., & Inoue, A. (2016). PARD3 regulates cell proliferation and apoptosis in colorectal cancer. [[Click](https://doi.org/10.3892/ol.2016.5292](https://doi.org/10.3892/ol.2016.5292))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**