---
title: "CTRC"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene CTRC"
tags: ['GeneCTRC', 'ChronicPancreatitis', 'DigestiveEnzyme', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function']
---

# Information about Gene CTRC

## Genetic position, Pathology, and Function
- **Genetic Position**: Chromosome 1, Region 1q32.1
- **Pathology**: Mutations in CTRC gene are associated with an increased risk of developing chronic pancreatitis.
- **Function**: The CTRC (Chymotrypsin C) gene encodes a digestive enzyme 'Chymotrypsin C', which catalyzes the cleavage of peptide bonds. It's involved in the digestion of proteins in the small intestine.

## Basic Gene Information
- **External IDs**: 
    - HGNC: 25172
    - NCBI Entrez: 11330
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000117724
    - OMIM: 601405
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q99895
- **Aliases**: CTRC, ELA2L

## Mutations and Variations
- **AA Mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**:
    - A73V (rs1800800)
    - R254W (rs387906633)
    - K247_R254del (rs751474015)
    - S262_L264delinsW (rs587777878)
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**:
    - No significant somatic mutations reported in CTRC gene.

## Related Disease
The mutations in CTRC gene are associated with an increased risk of developing chronic pancreatitis.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment of chronic pancreatitis mainly focuses on managing symptoms and complications. There is no curative treatment available yet, but a low-fat diet, pain medications, and pancreatic enzyme supplements can help in relieving symptoms.

## Drug Response
No specific drug has been reported to target CTRC gene or its product, Chymotrypsin C.

## Related papers
- **Author**: Masson, E., Le Maréchal, C., Chandak, G. R., Lamoril, J., Bezieau, S., Mahurkar, S., ... & Chen, J. M. (2008). 
- **Title**: Trypsinogen copy number mutations in patients with idiopathic chronic pancreatitis.
- **Journal**: Clinical genetics, 73(2), 190-193.
- **DOI**: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.2007.00934.x

- **Author**: Beer, S., Zhou, J., Szabo, A., Keiles, S., & Chandak, G. R. (2014).
- **Title**: Identification and characterization of a novel 27‐base pair deletion in the pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor (SPINK1) gene associated with pancreatitis.
- **Journal**: Human mutation, 35(8), 954-958.
- **DOI**: 10.1002/humu.22589

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**