---
title: "C1QB"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene C1QB"
tags: ['C1QB', 'ComplementSystem', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'TherapeuticOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'InnateImmunity', 'GeneticVariations', 'Pathologies']
---

# Information about Gene C1QB

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

**Genetic Position:** Chromosome 1q32.2<br>
**Pathology:** This gene is associated with several autoimmune diseases and chronic infections.<br>
**Function:** C1QB encodes for a subunit of the C1q protein complex. The C1q complex is part of the complement system and plays a crucial role in innate immunity by recognizing and removing pathogens and damaged cells.

## Gene Information

**External IDs:** 
- HGNC: 1530
- NCBI Entrez: 713
- Ensembl: ENSG00000117699
- OMIM: 120550
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P02746

**Aliases:** C1qB, complement component 1 Q subcomponent beta

## Mutations

**AA Mutation List:** 
- p.Arg14*
- p.[Arg14*, Gly167Arg]
- p.Leu217Phe
- p.Glu228*
- p.Arg236Trp
- p.Arg236Gln
- p.Glu261Lys
- p.Cys310Arg

**Mutation Type:** Missense, nonsense, frameshift, and splicing mutations.<br>
**dbSNP ID:** rs121909598, rs267606563, rs57831765, rs267606564, rs267606565, rs267606566, rs121909599, rs121909600

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

No Somatic SNVs/InDels reported in SNP Database.

## Related Disease

- Systemic lupus erythematosus
- Infective endocarditis
- Malaria
- Age-related macular degeneration
- Alzheimer's disease

## Treatment and Prognosis

The treatment options for diseases related to C1QB gene mutations or dysfunction vary depending on the specific condition. However, there are several therapeutic options available for autoimmune diseases, including immunosuppressants and biologic drugs. Prognosis also varies but can be improved with early detection and treatment.

## Drug Response

Several drugs are available that target the complement system, including some that affect C1q function. For example, Eculizumab and Coversin are drugs that inhibit C5 activation and are used to treat paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) and atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS).

## References

- **Subject:** Genetic variations in pattern recognition receptors and susceptibility to infection in renal transplant recipients. 
- **Author Name:** Campistol, J. M., & Rodrigo, E.
- **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s13410-016-0479-3)
    
    This study investigates the association between C1QB gene polymorphisms and susceptibility to infection in renal transplant recipients.

- **Subject:** Complement C1q: An Updated Review of Functions and Associated Pathologies. 
- **Author Name:** Hess, K., Ajami, A., & Welch, R.
- **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/jcm9030750)
    
    This review article provides updated information on the functions of complement C1q protein, including the role of C1qB subunit, and its association with various pathologies.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**