---
title: "CRYBA1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene CRYBA1"
tags: ['GeneCRYBA1', 'CongenitalCataracts', 'BetaCrystallinA1', 'MissenseMutation', 'SurgicalTreatment', 'GoodPrognosis', 'NoTargetedDrug', 'EtiologyAndPathogenesis']
---

# Information about Gene CRYBA1

## Genetic Position, Pathology and Function
- Gene: CRYBA1
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 17q11.2
- Pathology: Mutations in the CRYBA1 gene have been associated with congenital cataracts, which is a clouding of the eye lens present at birth or developing during infancy.
- Function: The CRYBA1 gene encodes for Beta-crystallin A1, a protein that is involved in the formation and maintenance of the transparent structure of the eye lens.

## External IDs, Aliases and Sites
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 2380
    - NCBI Entrez: 1412
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000163609
    - OMIM: 123610
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P53673
- Aliases: CRYB1, CTRCT7, LOP2
   
## Mutations
- AA Mutation List:
    - p.Arg116Gly
    - p.(Arg116His)
    - p.(Tyr56Cys)
    - p.(Val96Met)
- Mutation type: Missense
- dbSNP IDs: rs121909261, rs121909262, rs237864591, rs121909263

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
There is currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels in the CRYBA1 gene.

## Related Disease
- Congenital cataracts

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment for congenital cataracts involves surgical removal of the affected lens and replacement with an artificial lens. The prognosis for individuals with congenital cataracts is generally good, as long as the condition is managed appropriately.

## Drug Response
- There is currently no known drug specifically targeting mutations in the CRYBA1 gene.

## Related Papers
- Sharma, A., & Verma, A. (2016). Congenital cataract: A review of etiology, pathogenesis, and management. Critical Reviews™ in Eukaryotic Gene Expression, 26(4), 331–336. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1615/critreveukaryotgeneexpr.2016017142)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**