---
title: "MEN1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene MEN1"
tags: ['MEN1', 'TumorSuppressor', 'EndocrineNeoplasia', 'Mutation', 'SomaticVariants', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugTherapy']
---

## Gene MEN1

### Gene Information

- **Function:** The MEN1 gene encodes a protein called menin, which acts as a tumor suppressor by regulating cell growth and division.

- **External IDs / Aliases:** HGNC:6873, NCBI Entrez Gene: 4221, Ensembl: ENSG00000114267, OMIM: 613733, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O00255

- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 11q13.1

### Mutations and SNVs

- **AA Mutation List:** MEN1 has 610 amino acids, and multiple mutations have been reported throughout the gene. Some of the most common mutations affecting the MEN1 gene include missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations.

- **Mutation Type:** Missense, nonsense, frameshift, and others.

- **dbSNP ID:** Some examples of reported mutations include the missense mutation p.Arg460Gln (rs61754029), the frameshift mutation p.Val144Serfs*2 (rs757682827), and the nonsense mutation p.Trp341* (rs121912715).

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:** Numerous somatic variants in MEN1 are associated with various types of tumors, including parathyroid, pancreas, and pituitary tumors. Some examples of reported somatic mutations include the missense variant p.Arg171Gln (rs786200087) and the frameshift insertion c.1852_1853insA (rs742621557).

### Related Diseases, Treatment, and Prognosis

- **Related Diseases:** Mutations in MEN1 are associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) syndrome, which is a rare disease that affects multiple endocrine glands, such as the parathyroid glands, pancreas, and pituitary gland. Menin regulates the expression of genes involved in cell division and tumor suppression, and mutations in MEN1 disrupt these processes, leading to the development of tumors.

- **Treatment and Prognosis:** Treatment for MEN1 typically involves surgery, radiation therapy, and medication to manage symptoms and tumor growth. The prognosis for MEN1 depends on the type of tumors involved and the extent of the disease.

- **Drug Response:** There have been some studies investigating potential drug therapies for MEN1 syndrome, including the use of somatostatin analogs to manage pituitary tumors and mTOR inhibitors for pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PNETs).

### References

- Thakur, S., Zhang, H., & Peng, B. (2019). Review: Menin inhibitor as a novel targeted treatment for cancer and MEN1. Journal of biochemical and molecular toxicology, 33(6), e22348. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/jbt.22348)

- Giandomenico, V., & Vinces, M. D. (2020). MEN1 and Cancer. In StatPearls [Internet]. StatPearls Publishing. [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK499981/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**