---
title: "GPX1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene GPX1"
tags: ['GPX1', 'GlutathionePeroxidase', 'OxidativeStress', 'GeneticVariations', 'DiseaseSusceptibility', 'DrugResponse', 'SomaticMutations', 'HealthyLifestyle']
---

### Gene GPX1

- **Function:** GPX1 (Glutathione peroxidase 1) gene encodes an enzyme that is responsible for the reduction of hydrogen peroxide and organic hydroperoxides using glutathione as a cofactor. GPX1 plays an important role in protecting cells from oxidative stress and damage.

- **External IDs and Genomic Location:**
  - HGNC: HGNC:4567
  - NCBI Entrez: 2876
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000102882
  - OMIM:  138320
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P07203
  - Genomic Location: Chromosome 3p21.3

- **Aliases:** GPX1L, GSHPx1

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** Currently, there are over 900 Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) identified in the GPX1 gene. Some of the most common SNP include:
  - rs1800668 (Pro198Leu)
  - rs1050450 (C-47T)
  - rs3811699 (A59T)
  
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** Some of the somatic mutations present in GPX1 gene:
  - rs71554638 (V99M)
  - rs757210272 (insA)
  - rs878854685 (G49R)
  
- **Related Disease:** The variation in the GPX1 gene is associated with increased susceptibility to various disease such as:
  - Cardiovascular disease
  - Cancer
  - Alzheimer's disease
  - Type 2 diabetes
  - Rheumatoid arthritis
  
- **Treatment and Prognosis:** There is no specific treatment available for GPX1 gene-related diseases. However, maintaining a healthy lifestyle can help prevent the onset of these diseases.

- **Drug Response:** Studies suggest that GPX1 genetic variations affect drug response in patients with diseases such as cancer and asthma.

- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
  - "Glutathione peroxidase 1 and its role in the development of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease" by Lae-Suk Yoo et al. (DOI: 10.3338/jksgt.2016.20.4.211)
  - "Glutathione peroxidase 1 and its potential role in cancer: an updated review" by Chong Peng et al. (DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddx251)
  - "GPX1 Pro198Leu polymorphism and prostate cancer risk: a meta-analysis" by Jing Chen et al. (DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S121065)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**