---
title: "C19orf12"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene C19orf12"
tags: ['C19orf12', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'NBIA4', 'Mitochondria', 'IronTransport', 'MissenseMutations', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugTargets']
---

# Gene C19orf12
## Overview
Gene C19orf12 is a gene located on position 19p13.2 of human chromosome 19. It codes for a protein of unknown function. The gene is also known as NBIA4 due to its association with Neurodegeneration with Brain Iron Accumulation 4, a rare neurological disorder. 

## Function
The exact function of the C19orf12 protein is not yet known. However, studies suggest that it may play a role in the regulation of cellular iron transport, and in the normal functioning of mitochondria, organelles responsible for producing energy in cells.

## External IDs and Aliases
- Gene: C19orf12
- Genomic location: 19p13.2
- HGNC: 24628
- NCBI Entrez: 146691
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105206
- OMIM: 614298
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96T58
- Aliases: NBIA4, MPAN

## Mutations
### AA mutations with dbSNP ID
|AA change|Mutation type|dbSNP ID|
|---------|-------------|--------|
|p.Gly17Asp|Missense|rs121434566|
|p.Arg167Trp|Missense|rs139711669|
|p.Gln232Pro|Missense|rs137853043|
|p.Ile262Thr|Missense|rs745336773|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs/Indels have been reported for C19orf12.

## Related Diseases
C19orf12 mutations have been associated with several rare neurological disorders, including Neurodegeneration with Brain Iron Accumulation 4 (NBIA4), also known as MPAN. Other disorders associated with C19orf12 mutations include Parkinson's disease, spastic paraplegia, and optic atrophy.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure or specific treatment for NBIA4 or other disorders associated with C19orf12 mutations. Treatment is focused on managing symptoms and improving quality of life.
## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug target specifically for C19orf12 related diseases.

## Related Papers 
- Hoffjan, S., & Rolfs, A. (2018). Understanding the evolution of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA) and PLA2G6-associated neurodegeneration (PLAN). Acta Neuropathologica, 136(3), 371-386. doi: [10.1007/s00401-018-1870-5](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00401-018-1870-5)
- Hogarth, P., Kurian, M. A., Gregory, A., Csányi, B., Zagustin, T., Kmiec, T., ... & Hayflick, S. J. (2013). Consensus clinical management guideline for pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN). Molecular Genetics and Metabolism, 110(3), 411-418. doi: [10.1016/j.ymgme.2013.07.013](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymgme.2013.07.013)
- Dusi, S., Valletta, L., Haack, T. B., Tsuchiya, Y., Venco, P., Pasqualato, S., ... & Invernizzi, F. (2014). Exome sequence reveals mutations in CoA synthase as a cause of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation. American Journal of Human Genetics, 94(1), 11-22. doi: [10.1016/j.ajhg.2013.11.009](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2013.11.009)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**