---
title: "MPZ"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene MPZ"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'GeneMPZ', 'CharcotMarieToothDisease', 'PeripheralNerveMyelin', 'MissenseMutation', 'SomaticMutations', 'TreatmentOptions', 'ClinicalTrials']
---

# Information about Gene MPZ

**Genetic Position:** Chromosome 1 (1q23.3)

**Pathology:** Mutations in MPZ (Myelin Protein Zero) gene are associated with Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease, Type 1B (CMT1B), a hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy.

**Function of Gene MPZ:** The MPZ gene encodes a protein called myelin protein zero (P0), which is predominantly expressed in Schwann cells, and is a major component of peripheral nerve myelin. P0 plays a crucial role in creating and maintaining the myelin sheath which insulates and increases the conduction velocity of peripheral nerve fibers.

**External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases:**
- HGNC:7318
- NCBI Entrez: 4359
- Ensembl: ENSG00000198722
- OMIM: 159440
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P25189

Aliases: CMT1B1, GAS3, HEL-S-66p

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|------|-------------|------|
|L16R|Missense|rs104894614|
|P0 Ins|Frame-Shift|rs397514616|
|P68Q|Missense|rs104894615|
|N89K|Missense|rs104894616|
|P98L|Missense|rs104894617|
|L129P|Missense|rs104894618|
|L139P|Missense|rs104894619|

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** Currently, no somatic mutations have been reported with dbSNP ID.

**Related Disease:** Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, Type1B (CMT1B), a hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy, is associated with mutations in the MPZ gene.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** Currently, no cure for CMT1B exists. However, symptomatic treatment such as rehabilitation, orthotics, and occupational therapy can be provided for the patients.

**Drug Response:** No specific drug has been approved for the treatment of CMT1B. However, some drugs are in clinical trial stages, such as PXT3003, which has shown some positive results but is still not approved for general use.

**Subject, Author Name, DOI links to related papers:**

1.  Wrabetz et al., (2019). "Gene therapy approaches to treat Charcot-Marie-Tooth neuropathy." Journal of the Peripheral Nervous System, 24(2), 139-153. DOI: 10.1111/jns.12325.

2. Spaulding et al., (2019). "Natural History of Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease during childhood." Annals of Neurology, 86(1), 116-128. DOI: 10.1002/ana.25522.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**