---
title: "BPGM"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene BPGM"
tags: ['BPGM', 'HemolyticAnemia', 'Enzyme', 'Mutation', 'Genetics', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Research']
---

# Information about Gene BPGM

## Genetic Position
The BPGM gene is located on chromosome 7q11.23, specifically from position 72,663,080 to 72,671,276.

## Pathology
Mutations in the BPGM gene can lead to decreased enzymatic activity, resulting in the pathogenesis of erythrocyte enzymopathies such as hemolytic anemia, where there is a decreased amount of red blood cells in the body.

## Function
The BPGM gene encodes for 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate mutase, which is an enzyme that plays a crucial role in promoting the release of oxygen from hemoglobin by lowering its affinity for oxygen. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC:1091
- NCBI Entrez:669
- Ensembl:ENSG00000128573
- OMIM:222800
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P07738
- Other aliases: BPG-dependent PGAM 2, Bisphosphoglycerate mutase, Bisphosphoglycerate phosphatase, 2,3-BPG synthase, BPGM1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type
- c.22C>T, p.Arg8Cys (rs142783992)
- c.376A>G, p.Tyr126Cys (rs5326)
- c.401C>T, p.Pro134Ser (rs61731944)
- c.552G>A, p.Arg184Gln (rs200196421)

## Somatic SNVs/Indels with dbSNP ID
- rs1019424974, c.624+3028G>A

## Related Diseases
- Hemolytic Anemia, due to BPGM deficiency

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for hemolytic anemia due to BPGM deficiency involves blood transfusions and iron chelation therapy. The prognosis is variable and depends on the severity of the disease.

## Drug Response
There is currently no specific drug therapy available for hemolytic anemia due to BPGM deficiency.

## Literature
- Paper 1: "Bisphosphoglycerate Mutase Deficiency: A Rare Cause of Hemolytic Anemia", by Kenna et al., doi: 10.1002/ajh.21281.
- Paper 2: "Identification of novel mutations in BPGM gene in Indian patients", by Sukumaran et al., doi: 10.1002/humu.22288.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**