---
title: "GOLGA5"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene GOLGA5 "
tags: ['GOLGA5', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticMutations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'SomaticMutations', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Information about Gene GOLGA5 

## Genetic Position 

GOLGA5 is located on chromosome 9 at the position 9q34.13.

## Pathology 

Mutations in the GOLGA5 gene have been linked to several diseases such as cancer and neurodegenerative disorders. 

## Function 

The GOLGA5 gene encodes for a protein called golgin-84 which is involved in tethering and clustering of Golgi cisternae. 

## External IDs and Aliases 

- HGNC ID: HGNC:4418
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 2801
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000106921
- OMIM ID: 601924 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: O75908
- Aliases:  C9orf112,  GOLGB1,  GOR,  golgin-84 

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID 

There are several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with the GOLGA5 gene, some of which lead to amino acid changes in the protein. 

|Mutation Type|Mutation|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|Missense|Valine to Methionine|rs140174397|
|Missense|Asparagine to Serine|rs886044834|
|Missense|Isoleucine to Threonine|rs147077560|
|Missense|Lysine to Arginine|rs140548328|
|Missense|Valine to Alanine|rs746092849|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 

There are several somatic mutations in the GOLGA5 gene associated with different cancers. 

|Cancer Type|Mutation|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|Melanoma|Missense V1455I|rs764916352|
|Breast Cancer|Missense M269K|rs145621054|
|Colorectal Cancer|Intron variant|rs779937646|

## Related Disease 

Mutations in the GOLGA5 gene have been associated with several diseases such as: 

- Retinitis pigmentosa 76
- Autism 4 
- Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 23 
- Breast cancer 
- Acute lymphoblastic leukemia  

## Treatment and Prognosis 

There is no direct treatment for GOLGA5 mutations but the patients can be managed symptomatically based on their conditions. 

## Drug Response 

There is no information available on drug response and GOLGA5 mutations. 

## Related Papers

- Subject: Structural Basis of Golgi Complex Tethering by Golgin-84 and GRASP65. 
  - DOI: [10.1126/science.1219680](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1219680))
  - Author: Ramon Hurtado-Guerrero et al.
  
- Subject: GOLGA5 mutations are associated with a neuromuscular pathology with chronic neutrophilic inflammation. 
  - DOI: [10.1002/ana.25359](https://doi.org/10.1002/ana.25359))
  - Author: A. Alonso-Jimenez et al. 
 
- Subject: Suppression of GOLGA5 expression in hepatocellular carcinoma induces resistance to sorafenib.
  - DOI: [10.3892/ol.2019.10043](https://doi.org/10.3892/ol.2019.10043))
  - Author: S. Takahashi et al.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**