---
title: "HTR3B"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: HTR3B"
tags: ['HTR3B', 'Neurotransmitter', 'Schizophrenia', 'IBS', 'AlcoholAddiction', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticMutations', 'SerotoninReceptor']
---

## Gene: HTR3B

### Summary
HTR3B is a gene that is located on chromosome 11 at the genomic position 11q23.1. It encodes for the 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 3B protein, which plays a role in neurotransmitter signaling by binding to serotonin. Mutations in this gene have been associated with various diseases such as schizophrenia, irritable bowel syndrome, and alcohol addiction.

### Function:
The 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 3B protein encoded by HTR3B gene is a ligand-gated ion channel that regulates neurotransmitter signaling in the central and peripheral nervous system. Specifically, it binds to serotonin, a neurotransmitter that is involved in regulating mood, appetite, and sleep.

### External IDs:
- HGNC ID: 5227
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 9175
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000165406
- OMIM ID: 605898
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q8N1C3

### AA Mutation List:
- c.140G>A (p.Arg47His) - rs557130028
- c.688A>G (p.Asp230Gly) - rs142697998

### Somatic SNVs/InDels:
- c.176-43C>T - rs558073811
- c.853T>C - rs559762387

### Related Diseases:
- Schizophrenia
- Irritable bowel syndrome
- Alcohol addiction

### Treatment and Prognosis:
There is currently no known cure for genetic mutations in HTR3B. Symptomatic treatment may be prescribed to alleviate the symptoms of diseases associated with this gene.

### Drug Response:
Studies have suggested that certain drugs that target the HTR3B gene, such as ondansetron, may be effective in treating IBS and reducing alcohol cravings.

### Related Papers:
- Author Name: Tzeng JY, et al.
  - Title: "Evaluating the coverage of SNPs on commercial genotyping platforms and comparing imputation accuracy between platforms in a Korean population"
  - DOI: 10.1186/s12863-017-0568-5
- Author Name: Costedio MM, et al.
  - Title: "Serotonin Receptor Subtypes 3 and 4 Are Expression in Human Colon Mucosa and Stool"
  - DOI: 10.1097/01.sla.0000202813.70720.9e

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**