---
title: "TRPM6"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "**Gene Information**"
tags: ['TRPM6', 'MagnesiumHomeostasis', 'Hypomagnesemia', 'IonChannel', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'Treatment', 'KidneyDisease']
---

**Gene Information**

- Name: Transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 6
- Symbol: TRPM6
- Location: Chromosome 9q21.13
- Aliases: CHAK2, TRPM7L

**Function**

The TRPM6 gene encodes a protein that is part of the transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M. This protein functions as a divalent ion channel that regulates magnesium homeostasis and magnesium absorption in the intestine and kidney.

**External IDs**

- HGNC: 12180
- NCBI Entrez: 140803
- Ensembl: ENSG00000136875
- OMIM: 606263
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BX84

**AA Mutation List**

There are many reported AA mutations in the TRPM6 gene. Some of the mutations with dbSNP ID include:

- T267M (rs2274924)
- L522P (rs145159799)
- W1164X (rs3738805)
- E1399K (rs555802496)

**Somatic SNVs/InDels**

There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID in TRPM6 gene.

**Related Disease**

Mutations in TRPM6 gene have been associated with several disorders including:

- Autosomal dominant hypomagnesemia with hypocalcemia 1 (OMIM #602014)
- Susceptibility to thrombosis due to hypomagnesemia (OMIM #610360)

**Treatment and Prognosis**

Treatment for individuals with TRPM6 gene mutations depends on the severity of the disorder and the specific symptoms that they experience. In some cases, magnesium supplements or a magnesium-rich diet may be beneficial.

**Drug Response**

There is no known drug response related to TRPM6 gene at present.

**Related Papers**

- Subject: TRPM6 channelopathy: two novel mutations in exon 7 and 15 and review of the literature.
  - Author: Vargas-Poussou R, Huang CL, Hulin P, Houillier P, Jeunemaitre X.
  - DOI: 10.1186/1471-2369-10-23
- Subject: TRPM6 and its associated proteins in kidney disease.
  - Author: Dai LJ, Quamme GA.
  - DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gft252

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**