---
title: "CA4"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['CA4gene', 'carbonicanhydraseIV', 'acidbasebalance', 'renalproximaltubules', 'somaticmutations', 'renalacidosis', 'alkaliagents', 'kidneytransplant']
---

## Gene Information

The gene CA4 is located on chromosome 17q23.3 and has the official symbol "CA4". It encodes for carbonic anhydrase IV enzyme, which plays a role in catalyzing the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide.

### Function for gene

The CA4 gene codes for the carbonic anhydrase IV enzyme that is mainly expressed in the basolateral membranes of renal proximal tubules. It aids in the regulation of acid-base balance by catalyzing the conversion of carbon dioxide and water to bicarbonate and proton ions. 

### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases

- **HGNC:** HGNC:1398
- **NCBI Entrez Gene:** 762
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000108785
- **OMIM:** 114760
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** P22748
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 17q23.3
- **Aliases:** CAIV, Car4, RP17

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

The dbSNP database lists 102 non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for the CA4 gene. Examples of aa mutations are provided below:

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
|-----------|---------|--------------|
| p.Leu53Phe | Missense | rs1065588 |
| p.Ala164Val | Missense | rs41277798 |
| p.Glu155Lys | Missense | rs61741278 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

The COSMIC database reports a total of 31 somatic SNVs/InDels for the CA4 gene. Below are some examples:

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
|-----------|---------|--------------|
| c.112G>A | Missense | COSM212628 |
| c.725C>A | Missense | COSM212639 |
| c.1009G>A | Missense | COSM212647 |

### Related Disease

Mutations in CA4 are not commonly associated with genetic diseases. However, the altered function of the enzyme may be present in diseases such as renal tubular acidosis type 2 (RTA2), where the bicarbonate reabsorption in the renal tubules is impaired. 

### Treatment and prognosis

There is no specific treatment or prognosis for CA4 gene mutations. However, for patients with RTA2, treatment typically involves the administration of alkali agents (such as sodium bicarbonate) and supplements to address electrolyte imbalances.

### Drug response

There is no known drug response specific to CA4 gene mutations. 

### Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers

- Cloning and nucleotide sequence of the human carbonic anhydrase IV cDNA; [Peter Gros, et al.]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC533889/);) DOI: 10.1073/pnas.87.17.6622
- Human Carbonic Anhydrase IV: Functional Analysis of Wild-Type and Catalytic Site Mutants; [Shailesh Malekar, et al.]([Click](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0085223);) DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085223 
- CA4 gene variants in kidney transplant patients with metabolic acidosis and influence on acute rejection; [P. B. Brockmann, et al.]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4089659/);) DOI: 10.1038/ki.2014.78

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**