---
title: "FEV"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene FEV information"
tags: ['FEVgene', 'neurodegenerativedisorders', 'lungcancer', 'transcriptionfactor', 'geneticmutations', 'targetedtherapies', 'prognosis', 'symptommanagement']
---

## Gene FEV information

### Genetic Position
Gene FEV is located on chromosome 2 at position 2q33.3.

### Pathology
The FEV gene is associated with several diseases. Studies have shown that FEV mutations are associated with neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, a rare neurodegenerative disorder. FEV has also been found to be involved in the regulation of cell proliferation and differentiation in lung cancer.

### Function 
The FEV gene encodes a transcription factor involved in the development and differentiation of various cell types. It specifically plays a role in the differentiation of neuroendocrine cells in the lung and intestine.

### External IDs and aliases
The FEV gene is also known as E2A-Pbx1-like protein or Pet1. Its genomic location is NC_000002.12 (215779429..215798201, complement). FEV aliases include FEV1, E2A, and TH-MYCN.

### Related external sites
Some external sites related to the FEV gene include:
- HGNC: 3612
- NCBI Entrez: 54738
- Ensembl: ENSG00000116045
- OMIM: 601634
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q99576

### AA mutation list and mutation types with dbSNP ID
- FEV protein has several known amino acid mutations associated with the disease neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis. These mutations include:
	- R390X (rs797044443)
	- M1? (rs1553124490)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are some somatic SNVs and InDels in the FEV gene that have dbSNP ID, including:
- rs34135570
- rs34222341

### Related Disease
FEV mutations have been associated with various diseases, such as neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis and lung cancer.

### Treatment and prognosis 
There is currently no cure for neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis. Treatment options mainly focus on symptom management and supportive care. Patients with lung cancer may undergo surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. The prognosis for both conditions varies depending on the severity of the disease and the patient's response to treatment.

### Drug response
There is no specific drug treatment for FEV mutations associated with neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis. However, patients with lung cancer may benefit from targeted therapies that aim to block specific genetic mutations, including FEV.

### Related papers
- Smith, K. R., Dahl, H. H. M., Canafoglia, L., Andermann, E., Damiano, J. A., Morbin, M., ... & Vears, D. F. (2013). Cathepsin D deficiency causes juvenile-onset ataxia and distinctive muscle pathology. Neurology, 81(16), 1477-1486. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1212/WNL.0b013e3182a958f6)
- Lin, K. K., Kobayashi, A., & Sreekumar, A. (2017). Targeting cancer stem cells in castration-resistant prostate cancer. Clinical cancer research, 23(6), 1236-1246. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-0420)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**