---
title: "WT1 AS"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['WT1-AS', 'non-codingRNA', 'geneexpression', 'dysregulation', 'cancer', 'WilmsTumor', 'kidneycancer', 'research']
---

## Gene Information
- Gene Name: WT1-AS
- Function: WT1-AS is an antisense RNA that overlaps with the WT1 gene. The exact function of WT1-AS is not fully understood, but it has been suggested that it may be involved in the regulation of WT1 gene expression. 

## External IDs
- Gene ID: 100529191
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 11q23.3
- Aliases: NCRNA00084, WT1-AS1

## External Sites
- HGNC: 43090
- NCBI Entrez: 100529191
- Ensembl: ENSG00000271650
- OMIM: 612114
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: N/A

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No AA mutation data is available for WT1-AS, as it is a non-coding RNA.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic variant data is available for WT1-AS.

## Related Disease
- As WT1-AS is primarily involved in the regulation of the WT1 gene, its dysregulation may play a role in various diseases and cancers. For example, the down-regulation of WT1-AS has been observed in Wilms' tumor, a type of childhood kidney cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no specific treatment or prognosis information currently available for WT1-AS.

## Drug Response
- There is no information available regarding drug response and WT1-AS.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Down-regulation of long non-coding RNA WT1-AS promotes cell proliferation via regulating p21 and WT1 in acute myeloid leukemia
- Author: Yang F, Chen Y, Dai J, Wu B, Zhang M
- DOI: 10.1186/s13046-019-1161-7

- Subject: Long non-coding RNA WT1-AS inhibits cell aggressiveness via miR-203a-3p/ETS1 in renal cell carcinoma
- Author: Lei X, Lv X, Liu M, Yang Z, Ji M, Guo X, Wei B
- DOI: 10.1515/hsz-2017-0358

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**