---
title: "HIST1H4I"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: HIST1H4I "
tags: ['HIST1H4I', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticPosition', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'MutationList', 'RelatedPapers', 'DrugResponse', 'TreatmentPrognosis']
---

## Gene: HIST1H4I 

### Genetic Position 
* Chromosome: 6 
* Start Position: 25,867,409 bp
* End Position: 25,868,305 bp


### Pathology 
HIST1H4I gene is associated with various diseases such as leukemia, lymphoma, neuroblastoma, and several solid tumors.

### Function
HIST1H4I gene encodes a variant of the histone 4 protein, which forms part of the nucleosome structure of chromatin. This protein is involved in the packaging of DNA in chromosomes, and thus it regulates gene expression.

### External IDs and Aliases 
- HGNC: 4718
- NCBI Entrez: 8360
- Ensembl: ENSG00000183743
- OMIM: 142980
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P62806
- Aliases: H4, H4/n, H4F2, H4FN, HIST1H4A, H4/A, HIST1H4B, H4/I, HIST1H4C, H4/G, HIST1H4D, H4/B, HIST1H4E, H4/J, HIST1H4F, H4/C, HIST1H4H, H4/K, HIST1H4I, H4/M, HIST1H4J

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.298T>A: p.Ser100Arg (rs200052338)
- c.358A>G: p.His120Arg (rs200455161)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
- c.303G>A: p.Gly101Asp (rs1555487445)
- c.326G>A: p.Arg109His (rs1555487446)

### Related Diseases
- Leukemia
- Lymphoma
- Neuroblastoma
- Solid tumors

### Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment of diseases associated with HIST1H4I gene mutations depends on the specific condition and its severity. Prognosis is also determined by the particular type of disease.

### Drug Response
Drug response to diseases associated with HIST1H4I gene mutations depends on the specific condition and its severity.

### Related Papers
- **Subject:** Molecular profiling of pediatric brain tumors using liquid biopsy for disease diagnosis and surveillance. 
  - **Author:** Lasky JL 3rd, Pan DY, Sohani AR, Kim JY, Johnson AT, Chen H, Zhang H, Chen X, Xiao SY. 
  - **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pedn.2021.02.005)
  
- **Subject:** H4K16ac level within histone H4 is a marker of aging and longevity. 
  - **Author:** Gao Y, Han X, Wang Y, Chen J, Zeng J, Fan C, Li Y, Hu Y, Chen Y, Pan L, Zhu X. 
  - **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbrc.2021.03.156)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**