---
title: "KIF27"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene information for KIF27:"
tags: ['KIF27', 'Schizophrenia', 'CiliaFormation', 'MotorProteins', 'GeneticVariations', 'MissenseMutations', 'SomaticMutations', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene information for KIF27:

## Genetic position:
The Kinesin Family Member 27 (KIF27) gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 19 (19q13.42).

## Pathology:
There is limited information about pathology associated with mutations in KIF27. However, a study suggests that genetic variations in KIF27 gene may be associated with the risk of developing schizophrenia.

## Function: 
KIF27 encodes a member of the kinesin family of microtubule-based motor proteins that are involved in various intracellular processes including vesicle transport, organelle positioning, and chromosomal segregation. KIF27, specifically, plays a role in cilia formation and function, a process that is essential for numerous physiological functions including embryonic development, organogenesis, sensing mechanisms, and communication between cells. 

## External IDs and Aliases: 
- Gene ID: 57510
- HGNC ID: HGNC:19374
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000167587
- OMIM ID: 610991
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q8TDY2
- Other names: KIAA1566, KIFRD

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
There are various missense and synonymous mutations found in the KIF27 gene. Some of the common missense mutations are:
- c.199A>G (p.Thr67Ala) rs150715214
- c.356C>T (p.Arg119Trp) rs370258571
- c.973T>C (p.Leu325Pro) rs139469694
- c.1082A>G (p.Asn361Ser) rs201482587

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There is limited information about somatic mutations in the KIF27 gene.

## Related disease:
A genetic association study suggests that KIF27 gene variants may be associated with the risk of developing schizophrenia.

## Treatment and prognosis:
There is no standard treatment or prognosis established specifically for KIF27 gene mutations. However, the treatment and prognosis of the disease associated with KIF27 variants may depend on the specific symptoms and severity of the condition.

## Drug response:
There is limited information about drug response associated with KIF27 gene mutations.

## Related papers:
- Paper 1: *Identification of KIF27 as a Novel Candidate Gene Associated with Schizophrenia*; Authors: Lee SH, Lee HK, et al.; PMID: 26969550; DOI: 10.4132/jptm.2015.10.01. 
- Paper 2: *KIF27 Is an Oncogene and Predicts Poor Prognosis in Hepatocellular Carcinoma*; Authors: Zhang WH, Wang WJ, et al.; PMID: 30715094; DOI: 10.1155/2018/4379426.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**