---
title: "PAFAH1B2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: PAFAH1B2"
tags: ['PAFAH1B2', 'LIS2', 'NeurologicalDisorder', 'BrainDevelopment', 'Mutation', 'Seizures', 'AntiepilepticDrugs', 'PalliativeCare']
---

# Gene: PAFAH1B2
PAFAH1B2 (Platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase IB subunit 2) is a protein coding gene located at chromosome 11q23.3 that encodes for a subunit of platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase (PAFAH1B complex), known for its role in brain development.

## Function
The PAFAH1B complex is involved in cell signaling, cell differentiation, and migration in the developing brain. PAFAH1B2 is expressed in a wide range of tissues and is likely to play a vital role in lipid metabolism.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 8763
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 5050
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000110253
- OMIM ID: 602939
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q15102
- Alias: LIS2, LIS-2, PAFAHB2, PLIPL2, hLIS2.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Types
The dbSNP database provides a list of variations reported in human populations. The following is a list of amino acid mutations with their corresponding dbSNP IDs:
- R22C (rs121912464)
- A28P (rs777890824)
- R36W (rs1057517647)
- R43Q (rs779896515)
- V70A (rs778775104)
- A77V (rs778870685)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no somatic SNVs/InDels reported in the dbSNP database for PAFAH1B2.

## Related Disease
Mutations in PAFAH1B2 have been associated with lissencephaly-2 (LIS2), a rare neurological disorder characterized by a smooth cerebral surface, abnormal development of the brain, and seizures. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment for LIS2, and patients may require palliative care for seizures, breathing difficulties, and other symptoms. The prognosis for patients with LIS2 depends on the severity of their condition, with some patients dying in infancy and others living into adulthood.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug that can target mutations in PAFAH1B2. However, antiepileptic drugs can help manage seizures in patients with LIS2.

## Related Papers
- Author: Bahi-Buisson, N.
DOI: 10.1007/springerreference_255244
Title: Lissencephaly
Published: 2014
- Author: Oegema, R.
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0012485
Title: LIS1 and doublecortin function with dynein to mediate coupling of the nucleus to the centrosome in neuronal migration
Published: 2010

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**