---
title: "ADAMTS17"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: ADAMTS17"
tags: ['ADAMTS17', 'ExtracellularMatrix', 'MissenseVariants', 'SomaticVariants', 'WeillMarchesaniSyndrome', 'Osteoarthritis', 'Cancer', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: ADAMTS17

## Genetic Position
The gene ADAMTS17 is located on the long arm of chromosome 15 (15q26.1). It spans approximately 425 kilobases.

## Pathology and Function
The ADAMTS17 gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. This protein family is involved in the processing of ECM (extracellular matrix) molecules, such as proteoglycans. ADAMTS17 is specifically involved in the cleavage and processing of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, which have a key role in the development and integrity of the rest of the extracellular matrix. Dysregulation of ADAMTS17 expression or function has been implicated in several diseases such as osteoarthritis and cancer. 

## External IDs, Aliases and Links

 - HGNC: 15203
 - NCBI Entrez Gene: 170689
 - Ensembl: ENSG00000179912
 - OMIM: 605012
 - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8TE59
 - Alias: ADAMTS-17, UNQ2496/PRO58868, NPHP6
 
## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
The dbSNP database lists several missense, nonsense, and splice variants in the ADAMTS17 gene. 
Here are a few examples of nonsynonymous variants with their dbSNP IDs:

| AA change                    | dbSNP ID       | Mutation Type |
|------------------------------| --------------|---------------|
| p.(Asp277Asn)                | rs374537804   | Missense      |
| p.(Gly420Arg)                | rs150321911   | Missense      |
| p.(Arg460Gln)                | rs150068007   | Missense      | 
| p.(Gln574Ter)                | rs142244945   | Nonsense      | 
| p.(Ser842Leu)                | rs17855103    | Missense      | 

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
ADAMTS17 is often found to be hypermethylated in various cancers such as breast, gastric, and colorectal cancer. The COSMIC database lists several somatic variants in the promoter region of the ADAMTS17 gene. Here are a few examples:

| SNV/InDel                           | dbSNP ID   |
|------------------------------------|-----------|
| c.-51C>G                            | rs79707211|
| c.-54_-53delCC                      | -         |
| c.-57_-55delACA                     | -         |
| c.-96_-93delGTTG                     | -        |

## Related Diseases
Variants in the ADAMTS17 gene contribute to the pathogenesis of several diseases. A few examples are listed below: 

- Weill-Marchesani syndrome 1 (WMS1): This is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by microspherophakia, ectopia lentis, severe myopia, glaucoma, and short stature. Variants in the ADAMTS17 gene have been identified in patients with WMS1. 
- Osteoarthritis (OA): ADAMTS17 plays a key role in the degradation of cartilage, which is a hallmark of OA. Variants in ADAMTS17 have been implicated in the development of OA. 
- Cancer: Mutations and hypermethylation of ADAMTS17 have been observed in various cancers such as breast, gastric, and colorectal cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are no specific treatments available for diseases caused by ADAMTS17 variants. Treatment of symptoms and complications is typically recommended. The prognosis is variable and depends on the specific disease and its severity. 

## Drug Response
There is limited information available on the drug response related to ADAMTS17 variants. 

## Related Papers 
1. [ADAMTS17 mutations in autosomal recessive Weill-Marchesani syndrome]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2917680/).) 
2. [Association study between candidate gene polymorphisms in the aggrecans, VDR, COL2A1 genes and radiographic severity of knee osteoarthritis in a Chinese population]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6320946/))
3. [Identification of eight genes associated with osteoarthritis of the knee through genome-wide association study]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5732069/))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**