---
title: "FMO3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for FMO3"
tags: ['FMO3', 'Trimethylaminuria', 'FishOdorSyndrome', 'EnzymeMetabolism', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene Information for FMO3

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function
The FMO3 gene is located on chromosome 1 at the p36.13 position. This gene encodes an enzyme called Flavin-containing monooxygenase 3 (FMO3) which is responsible for metabolizing a variety of heteroatom-containing compounds such as drugs and xenobiotics. Mutations in the FMO3 gene have been linked to Trimethylaminuria or Fish Odor Syndrome which is characterized by the accumulation of TMA (trimethylamine) in body fluids which leads to a fish-like odor. 

## Gene Function 
The FMO3 gene codes for a flavin-containing monooxygenase 3 enzyme that oxidizes various compounds like drugs and xenobiotics into nontoxic metabolites that can be easily excreted. This gene's enzyme metabolism aids in the breakdown of TMA so that it does not accumulate in the body and cause fish odor syndrome in individuals with a functional FMO3 gene.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 3772
- NCBI Entrez ID: 2328
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000116251
- OMIM ID: 136132
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P31513
- Aliases: FMO2B, MGC9026 

## AA Mutation List with mutation type and dbSNP ID
- c.445G>A (p.Asp149Asn), missense, rs61731342
- c.635G>A (p.Gly212Arg), missense, rs61731343
- c.536A>G (p.Ile179Val), missense, rs61730971
- c.1165G>A (p.Gly389Arg), missense, rs61731344
- c.991G>A (p.Arg331Gln), missense, rs61731345

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known somatic SNVs/InDels reported for the FMO3 gene in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
Trimethylaminuria or Fish Odor Syndrome is linked to mutations in the FMO3 gene. Individuals with this disorder suffer from a fishy odor emanating from their breath, urine, and sweat due to an accumulation of TMA in their body.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Trimethylaminuria does not have a definitive cure yet. However, avoiding foods rich in trimethylamine like fish, beans, eggs, and red meat can improve symptoms. Antibiotics and activated charcoal may also be used in some cases. The long-term outlook for patients with trimethylaminuria varies from person to person. Some may experience symptoms frequently, while others may experience them only occasionally.

## Drug Response
There is no known drug response associated with mutations in the FMO3 gene currently.

## Related Papers
- Subject: The role of FMO3 in human disease
  - Author: Hines RN
  - DOI: 10.1111/cts.12797
- Subject: Identification of ten novel mutations in the FMO3 gene from a large cohort of Spanish individuals with trimethylaminuria
  - Author: Ruiz-Sánchez E et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/mgg3.954

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**