---
title: "PHF8"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for PHF8"
tags: ['PHF8', 'HistoneDemethylase', 'XLinkedMentalRetardation', 'BorjesonForssmanLehmannSyndrome', 'EpigeneticRegulation', 'GeneticDisorders', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene Information for PHF8

## Genetic Position
PHF8 gene is located on the X chromosome at Xp11.23. It spans about 168,160 base pairs in genomic region.

## Pathology and Function
PHF8 gene encodes for a protein named PHD finger protein 8. This protein is known to act as a histone demethylase and plays a crucial role in the epigenetic regulation of gene expression. It specifically targets H3K9me1 and H3K9me2 marks to ensure the proper expression of genes involved in development, neuronal differentiation, and cell growth. Mutations in the PHF8 gene have been linked with several genetic disorders, including X-linked mental retardation, Siderius type (OMIM #300263), and Borjeson-Forssman-Lehmann syndrome (OMIM #301900).

## External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 23133
- HGNC ID: 24930
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000178718
- OMIM ID: 300560
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9Y5B0
- Other Aliases: JHDM1F, ZNF422

## Mutations
- AA Mutation List:
  - c.827C>T (p.Arg276Ter)
  - c.1375G>A (p.Asp459Asn)
  - c.1675G>T (p.Gly559Cys)

- Mutation Type and dbSNP ID:
  - c.827C>T (p.Arg276Ter) - Stopgain, rs368786136
  - c.1375G>A (p.Asp459Asn)- Missense, rs373778421
  - c.1675G>T (p.Gly559Cys) - Missense, rs397508695

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
Currently, there are no known somatic variants for PHF8 gene in dbSNP database.

## Related Disease
Mutations in PHF8 gene have been linked with several genetic disorders, including:
- X-linked mental retardation, Siderius type (OMIM #300263)
- Borjeson-Forssman-Lehmann syndrome (OMIM #301900)

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are no specific treatments available for disorders caused by mutations in the PHF8 gene. Symptomatic treatment and management of underlying symptoms remains the only option. The prognosis depends on the specific disorder and severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response
Currently, there is no information available on drug response for disorders caused by mutations in PHF8 gene.

## Related Research Papers
- Subject: Human PHF8 Protein Is a Histone Lysine Demethylase Specific for H3K9me1 and H3K9me2
  - Author: L.A. Qiao et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.str.2011.08.005

- Subject: Borjeson-Forssman-Lehmann syndrome caused by a novel PHF8 mutation: clinical, genetic, and functional features
  - Author: S. Tabolacci et al.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s10048-016-0467-4

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**