---
title: "SYK"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SYK"
tags: ['GeneSYK', 'TyrosineKinase', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'Cancer', 'SYKInhibitors', 'DrugResponse', 'MissenseMutations', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene SYK

## Gene Information
- Gene: SYK
- Function: Syk protein is a tyrosine kinase involved in cellular signaling. It plays an important role in various cellular functions including immune receptor signaling, cell adhesion, and platelet activation.
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 9 (9q22.2)
- Aliases: Spleen Tyrosine Kinase, p72-Syk

## External IDs
- HGNC: 11445
- NCBI Entrez: 6850
- Ensembl: ENSG00000124334
- OMIM: 600085
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P43405

## Mutations
- AA Mutation List: The SYK gene has been found to have different missense mutations in cancer patients. Some of the frequently noted mutations are: Y352H, F431L, R458Q, and R21C.
- Mutation Type: Missense
- dbSNP ID: rs139573759, rs373763540, rs146630417, rs553011679

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- dbSNP ID: rs730880816, rs777660177
- InDels: A tumor sample exhibited an 18bp deletion in exon 4 leading to protein truncation.

## Related Disease
- Autoimmune Diseases: Changes in the SYK gene, such as missense or deletion mutations, have been linked to autoimmune diseases such as arthritis and lupus.
- Cancer: SYK mutations have been found in different types of tumors such as lymphoma, breast cancer, and pancreatic cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- SYK inhibitors have been found to be effective in treating chronic lymphocytic leukemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma that have activating SYK mutations.
- The prognosis of SYK mutations in cancer patients is generally poor.

## Drug Response
- Fostamatinib and Entospletinib are drugs that target SYK and have been shown to be effective in cancer treatment.

## Related Papers
- Subject: SYK kinase is a potential therapeutic target for pediatric B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
- Author Name: Wróbel, T.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2019.109383

- Subject: Spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK) inhibitors in autoimmune and inflammatory diseases.
- Author Name: Chang, C. and Miller, R.
- DOI: 10.1007/s40265-015-0426-5

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**