---
title: "DNM1L"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene DNM1L"
tags: ['DNM1L', 'MitochondrialFission', 'OpticAtrophy', 'CharcotMarieToothDisease', 'GeneticMutation', 'SomaticVariants', 'DiseaseManagement', 'MitochondrialDysfunction']
---

# Information about Gene DNM1L

### Genetic Position
The DNM1L gene is located on the human chromosome 12q24.11. It spans a genomic region of 60,799 base pairs.

### Pathology
Mutations in the DNM1L gene have been associated with human disorders such as optic atrophy and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2A.

### Function
The DNM1L gene encodes a protein called dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1), which is involved in mitochondrial fission.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 29714
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 10059
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000064687
- OMIM ID: 603850
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: O00429
- Aliases: DRP1, DLP1, DVLP, CMT2A, RAMI4, hFIS1

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg445His (rs113994120)
- p.Arg399Cys (rs104893870)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are 49 somatic variants of the DNM1L gene listed in the dbSNP database.

### Related Disease
Mutations in the DNM1L gene have been associated with optic atrophy and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2A.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There are currently no specific treatments available for genetic diseases caused by mutations in the DNM1L gene. Management of symptoms and complications is the primary approach to improve the patient's quality of life.

### Drug Response
There is no information available about drug response related to mutations in the DNM1L gene.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Inherited optic neuropathies: the impact of mitochondrial DNA.
  - Author: Barrès BA
  - DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6702765
- Subject: Molecular genetics of autosomal dominant optic atrophy (Kjer type)
  - Author: Ferre M
  - DOI: 10.1016/S0074-7750(07)70007-5
- Subject: Dynamin-related protein 1 and mitochondrial fragmentation in neurodegenerative diseases.
  - Author: Zuo W
  - DOI: 10.1186/s40035-015-0051-0

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**