---
title: "XRCC3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene XRCC3"
tags: ['XRCC3', 'HomologousRecombination', 'DNARepair', 'BreastCancer', 'GenomicInstability', 'SomaticMutations', 'RadiationTherapy', 'Chemotherapy']
---

# Information about Gene XRCC3

## Genetic Position
The gene XRCC3 is located on chromosome 14 at the position 14q32.33. It spans a genomic region of about 8kb.

## Pathology
XRCC3 gene is associated with the increase of breast cancer and other types of cancers such as acute lymphoblastic leukemia, nonsmall cell lung cancer and glioma. Additionally, mutations in this gene lead to genomic instability and DNA damage, which in turn increases the risk of cancer development.

## Function
XRCC3 is involved in the homologous recombination DNA repair pathway, which is an important process for the maintenance of genomic stability and prevention of cancer development. This protein functions as a part of the RAD51 paralog protein family, which mediates the DNA-strand exchange reaction during homologous recombination repair.

## External IDs and Genomic Location

- HGNC: 12825
- NCBI Entrez: 7517
- Ensembl: ENSG00000141736
- OMIM: 600675
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HB55

Genomic location: Chromosome 14: 90,523,056-90,531,295

Aliases: Rec2, RAD51L2, NRHRP2

## AA Mutation List

Two somatic mutations are reported for XRCC3 gene, which are as follows:

- D213N with dbSNP ID: rs1799794
- T241M with dbSNP ID: rs861539

## Related Diseases
- Breast Cancer
- nonsmall cell lung cancer
- glioma
- acute lymphoblastic leukemia

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatments for cancer caused by XRCC3 mutation include radiation therapy and chemotherapy. The prognosis for cancer patients with XRCC3 mutation depends on the type and stage of cancer.

## Drug Response
Currently, there is limited information available on drug response related to XRCC3 mutation. More research is needed to determine the effectiveness of various drugs in cancer patients with XRCC3 mutation.

## Related papers
- Author: Shailendra Dwivedi.  [Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1440-6055.2011.00834.x)
- Author: Marwa Akiki. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dnarep.2016.04.002)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**