---
title: "OR2T5"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: OR2T5"
tags: ['GeneOR2T5', 'OlfactoryReceptor', 'OdorDetection', 'Chromosome1', 'NoPathology', 'NoRelatedDisease', 'NoDrugResponse', 'NoAAmutation']
---

# Gene Information: OR2T5

### Genetic Position
Gene: OR2T5 (Olfactory Receptor Family 2 Subfamily T Member 5) is located on Chromosome 1 at position 1p36.12.

### Pathology
There is no known pathology associated with gene OR2T5.

### Function
OR2T5 belongs to the olfactory receptor family and is involved in the detection of odorants. It binds with specific odor molecules and transduce their signals to the brain, which results in the perception of specific odors.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 14645
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 390867
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000263243
- OMIM ID: NA
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: NA
- Aliases: OR2T5 olfactory receptor, family 2, subfamily T, member 5; OR1HP1 olfactory receptor 1HP1 (gene/pseudogene); OT2T5.

### AA mutation list & mutation type with dbSNP ID
No AA mutation is reported for gene OR2T5.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for gene OR2T5.

### Related Diseases
There is currently no known disease associated with gene OR2T5.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Since OR2T5 is associated with the detection of odors, there is no known treatment or prognosis associated with gene OR2T5.

### Drug Response
There is no drug response information available for gene OR2T5.

### Subject, Author Name, DOI links to related papers
There is no specific research paper related to gene OR2T5.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**