---
title: "RPGRIP1L"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene RPGRIP1L "
tags: ['RPGRIP1L', 'GeneticDisorders', 'Cilia', 'Retina', 'Mutation', 'LeberCongenitalAmaurosis', 'ConeRodDystrophy', 'FamilialExudativeVitreoretinopathy']
---

# Information about gene RPGRIP1L 

## Genetic Position
RPGRIP1L is located on chromosome 16q12.2, from base pair 54,475,707 to base pair 54,910,012.

## Pathology
Mutations in RPGRIP1L have been associated with a range of genetic disorders, particularly those affecting the eyes, such as Leber congenital amaurosis, cone-rod dystrophy, and familial exudative vitreoretinopathy.

## Function
RPGRIP1L encodes a protein that is a component of cilia, the hair-like structures responsible for sensing and transducing signals in a variety of cell types. RPGRIP1L plays a role in protein trafficking within cilia, including to the outer segments of photoreceptor cells in the retina.

## External IDs and Aliases
* HGNC ID: 13595
* NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 57096
* Ensembl ID: ENSG00000140939
* OMIM ID: 610937
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q96KN7
* Aliases: CRLF16, MKS5, NPHP8

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Some reported coding mutations of RPGRIP1L are:
* c.1579C>T (p.R527*)
* c.5335G>A (p.G1779R)
* c.4974+1G>A
* c.4432_4435del (p.P1478Afs*25)
* c.3514G>A (p.W1172*)

These mutations include nonsense, missense, frameshift, and splicing mutations. Some of these mutations are reported in dbSNP with the following IDs:
* rs397514788
* rs267607089
* rs188411850
* rs1554190521

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no somatic mutations of RPGRIP1L reported in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
RPGRIP1L mutations have been associated with several genetic diseases, including:
* Leber congenital amaurosis
* Cone-rod dystrophy
* Familial exudative vitreoretinopathy
* Joubert syndrome type B
* Meckel syndrome type 5

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are currently no approved treatments for genetic conditions caused by RPGRIP1L mutations, and prognosis varies depending on the severity of the condition.

## Drug Response
There is currently no information available on drug response specific to RPGRIP1L mutations.

## Related Papers
* "RPGRIP1L mutations are mainly associated with Leber congenital amaurosis and cone-rod dystrophies with a severe phenotype but are generally not found in macular dystrophies." [PMID: 28972933]
* "Screening of RPGRIP1L gene in familial and sporadic cases of North Indian Leber congenital amaurosis patients" [PMID: 31023534]
* "Whole exome sequencing reveals mutations in known retinal disease genes in 33 out of 68 Israeli families with inherited retinopathies." [PMID: 32087877]

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**