---
title: "FEN1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene FEN1"
tags: ['GeneFEN1', 'DNAreplication', 'DNArecombination', 'cancer', 'geneticdisorders', 'precisionmedicine', 'prognosis', 'chemotherapyresponse']
---

# Gene FEN1

## Gene information
- Function: FEN1 encodes a structure-specific nuclease critical to DNA replication, repair, and recombination. FEN1 has endonuclease and exonuclease activities and has roles in Okazaki fragment maturation, long-patch base excision repair, telomere maintenance, and DNA damage response.
- External IDs: FEN1 gene is located on chromosome 11 at the genomic location of q12.3. Some aliases for FEN1 gene are RTH-1, RAD2, FEN-1, and hFEN1.
- External sites:
    - HGNC: HGNC=3604
    - NCBI Entrez: 2237
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000171568
    - OMIM: 601340 
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P39748

## Mutations
- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
    - p.Gln258Arg: Missense variant with SNP ID rs174538.
    - p.Ala182Asp: Missense variant with SNP ID rs36189514.
    - p.Asp181Tyr: Missense variant with SNP ID rs572510826.
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
    - c.233C>T: Somatic mutation with SNP ID rs36053993.
    - c.52C>T: Somatic mutation with SNP ID rs36052759.

## Related diseases
- FEN1 mutations have been associated with different types of cancer, including breast cancer, pancreatic cancer, and lung cancer. Additionally, FEN1 mutations have also been linked to various genetic disorders such as Schimke immuno-osseous dysplasia, a rare autosomal recessive disorder.

## Treatment and prognosis
- The treatment and prognosis largely depend on the severity of the specific disease caused by the FEN1 mutation. In some cases, precision medicine approaches may be utilized to target and treat the specific mutation.
- For Schimke immuno-osseous dysplasia, management can include bone marrow transplantation, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, and growth hormone replacement therapy.

## Drug response
- There is currently no information available about the drug response of FEN1 mutations.

## Related papers
- Lee, K. H., Kim, J. S., & Kang, H. Y. (2016). FEN1 ensures genome stability via distinct pathways in gynecologic cancer cells. International journal of oncology, 49(6), 2499-2508. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3892/ijo.2016.3724)
- Macerola, E., Loggini, B., Giannini, R., Garosi, G., Cognetti, F., Giordano, A., & Sidoni, A. (2018). FEN1 expression predicts poor prognosis in operable pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma and is correlated with postoperative gemcitabine-based chemotherapy response. Cancer biology & therapy, 19(7), 543-549. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1080/15384047.2018.1430327)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**