---
title: "WDR35"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: WDR35"
tags: ['WDR35', 'CiliaryAssembly', 'GeneticMutations', 'SRTD8', 'RP53', 'CED4', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'AxonemeAbnormalities']
---

## Gene: WDR35

### Function 
The WDR35 gene encodes a protein known as WD repeat-containing protein 35. This protein is involved in the process of ciliary assembly, which is critical for the proper functioning of many organs and tissues. 

### External IDs, Genomic Location, and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 28311
- Entrez Gene ID: 284403
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000166337
- OMIM ID: 613602
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H4I2
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 2q35

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Ala537Pro: Missense Mutation, rs138530843
- p.Gly630Ser: Missense Mutation, rs367803086
- p.Leu238Arg: Missense Mutation, rs1567408335

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs139032759: In-frame Deletion
- rs146876105: Frameshift Mutation
- rs142401546: Nonsense Mutation

### Related Diseases
Mutations in the WDR35 gene have been associated with several diseases including:
- Short-rib thoracic dysplasia 8 with or without polydactyly (SRTD8)
- Retinitis pigmentosa 53 (RP53)
- Cranioectodermal dysplasia 4 (CED4)

### Treatment and Prognosis 
There is currently no cure for the genetic conditions associated with WDR35 mutations. Treatment is supportive and focuses on managing symptoms. Prognosis can vary depending on the specific condition and severity of symptoms.

### Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response associated with WDR35 mutations.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Mutations in WDR35 associated with multiple morphological abnormalities of the axoneme in human cilia
  - Author: William B. Knowles et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2013.08.011
- Subject: Novel WDR35 mutations in patients with cranioectodermal dysplasia (Sensenbrenner syndrome)
  - Author: Noriko Miyake et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/humu.22649

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**