---
title: "HDAC6"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['HDAC6', 'HistoneDeacetylase', 'Cancer', 'NeurodegenerativeDiseases', 'Inhibitors', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'ClinicalTrials']
---

## Gene Information
- Gene Name: HDAC6 (Histone Deacetylase 6)
- Location:  Xp11.23
- aliases: CPBHM1, FLJ11758, JM21

## Function
HDAC6 is involved in removing acetyl groups from the lysine residues of histones and other proteins. It is a member of the histone deacetylase family. HDAC6 is involved in regulating several cellular processes such as cell motility, cell division, and immune responses.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 4852
- NCBI Entrez: 10013
- Ensembl: ENSG00000160789
- OMIM: 300329
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UBN7

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
No clinically relevant mutations have been reported in the HDAC6 gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Several somatic mutations have been identified in the HDAC6 gene. However, there are limited functional studies available for most of these mutations. No dbSNP ID is available for these somatic mutations.

## Related Disease
HDAC6 mutations have been associated with several types of cancer, including breast, ovarian, and colorectal cancer. HDAC6 upregulation has also been linked to neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Huntington’s disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis
HDAC6 inhibitors have shown promise in pre-clinical studies for the treatment of several types of cancer and neurodegenerative diseases. However, further clinical trials are needed to confirm their efficacy and safety in humans.

## Drug Response
HDAC6 inhibitors have shown promising results in pre-clinical and clinical studies. For instance, Citarinostat, an HDAC6 inhibitor, has shown antitumor activity in a phase I clinical trial in patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma.

## Related Papers
- Subject: HDAC6 as a therapeutic target in cancer and neurodegenerative diseases
- Author: Codd R, Braich N, Liu J, Soe CZ
- DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.2174/1568009619666190311112556)

- Subject: The potential of HDAC6 inhibitors in neurodegenerative diseases and cancer
- Author: Wang Z, Zhang L, Ni Z, Sun S, Chen B, Shao Z
- DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-018-35025-4)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**