---
title: "IFNL3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information"
tags: ['IFNL3', 'IL28B', 'HepatitisC', 'AntiviralImmuneResponse', 'TreatmentResponse', 'GeneticVariations', 'InterferonTherapy', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene Information

## Gene Name and Location
The gene in question is IFNL3, located on chromosome 19 at position 19q13.2.

## Pathology
IFNL3 plays a crucial role in mediating immune responses to viral infections, particularly those involving hepatitis C virus (HCV). Inherited variations in the IFNL3 gene have been linked to increased susceptibility to chronic HCV infection and the development of liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma.

## Function 
IFNL3 encodes Interferon lambda 3, a member of the class II interferon family.  IFNL3 protein plays a significant role in mediating antiviral immune responses by the induction of IFN-stimulated genes in cells.

## Aliases and External IDs
IFNL3 is also known as IL28B, interleukin 28B. Its external IDs include HGNC:17792, NCBI Entrez: 282618, Ensembl: ENSG00000159217, OMIM: 607415, and UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8IZI9.

## AA Mutation 
The NCBI ClinVar database reports several single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the IFNL3 gene. One such example is SNP rs12979860, which results in an amino acid change from arginine to leucine at position 70 (R70L). This variation is associated with differences in treatment response to interferon-based therapies for chronic HCV infection.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
The COSMIC database includes somatic variations in the IFNL3 gene. One such example is COSM5151121, a missense mutation resulting in a change from cysteine to arginine at position 105 (C105R), found in liver cancer tissue.

## Related Disease
Variations in the IFNL3 gene have been associated with several diseases, including chronic hepatitis C, liver cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma.

## Treatment and Prognosis
IFNL3 gene polymorphisms influence the response to interferon therapy for chronic hepatitis C. The prognosis for HCV-related diseases may be improved by advancements in antiviral therapies.

## Drug Response
Studies have shown that variations in the IFNL3 gene can predict treatment response to interferon-based therapies for chronic HCV infection. Individuals with specific IFNL3 alleles may respond better to direct-acting antiviral drugs, and testing for IFNL3 polymorphisms may be useful in predicting treatment outcomes.

## Related Papers
- Prokunina-Olsson, L., Muchmore, B., Tang, W., Pfeiffer, R. M., Park, H., Dickensheets, H., ... & Urban, T. J. (2013). A variant upstream of IFNL3 (IL28B) creating a new interferon gene IFNL4 is associated with impaired clearance of hepatitis C virus. Nature genetics, 45(2), 164-171. doi: [10.1038/ng.2521]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.2521))
- Ge, D., Fellay, J., Thompson, A. J., Simon, J. S., Shianna, K. V., Urban, T. J., ... & Goldstein, D. B. (2009). Genetic variation in IL28B predicts hepatitis C treatment-induced viral clearance. Nature, 461(7262), 399-401. doi: [10.1038/nature08309]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature08309))
- Thomas, D. L., Thio, C. L., Martin, M. P., Qi, Y., Ge, D., O'Huigin, C., ... & Shuldiner, A. R. (2009). Genetic variation in IL28B and spontaneous clearance of hepatitis C virus. Nature, 461(7265), 798-801. doi: [10.1038/nature08463]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature08463))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**