---
title: "TUSC3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene TUSC3"
tags: ['TUSC3', 'EndoplasmicReticulum', 'Cancer', 'MentalRetardation', 'GeneticVariants', 'Prognosis', 'SupportiveCare', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about gene TUSC3
### Gene Position
- TUSC3 is located on chromosome 8 at position 8p22.

### Pathology
- TUSC3 is associated with multiple types of tumors, including breast, lung, and ovarian cancer. 

### Function for gene
- The TUSC3 gene encodes a subunit of the endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein complex, which is involved in protein synthesis and folding.

### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- Gene ID: 79987
- Genomic location: Chr8: 12,925,615-12,936,950
- Aliases: N33, MGC142241, FLJ20125, FLJ20376, NM_024632

### External sites
- HGNC: HGNC:18011
- NCBI Entrez: 79987
- Ensembl: ENSG00000104384
- OMIM: 606595
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BVL2

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- No common AA mutation has been reported in the TUSC3 gene.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Some variants in the TUSC3 gene have been identified in various cancers but, these variants may not affect gene function or cause disease.
- rs144761410
- rs117467511

### Related disease
- Mutations or deletions of the TUSC3 gene have been associated with autosomal recessive mental retardation-57.

### Treatment and prognosis
- There is no specific treatment for TUSC3-related diseases. Supportive care and symptom management is standard. Prognosis varies depending on the specific disorder and its severity.

### Drug response
- There is currently no specific drug that targets the TUSC3 gene.

### Related papers
- Mutations of TUSC3 are linked to autosomal recessive mental retardation. PMID: 21412947
- TUSC3 deletion in cervical cancer promotes tumorigenesis. PMID: 31574056

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**