---
title: "MBD3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene MBD3"
tags: ['MBD3', 'GeneExpressionRegulation', 'ChromatinRemodeling', 'NeurodevelopmentalDisorders', 'Immunodeficiency', 'GeneticMutations', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

# Gene MBD3

## Genetic Position
The gene MBD3 is located on the short arm of chromosome 19 at position 13.11.

## Pathology
Mutations in the MBD3 gene have been linked to several pathologies involving developmental delays, physical and mental disabilities, and immune disorders.


## Function for gene
The MBD3 gene encodes for a protein called Methyl-CpG-binding domain protein 3 (MBD3). The protein is involved in the regulation of gene expression by binding to and modifying methylated DNA. MBD3 also plays a role in chromatin remodeling.

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases

- HGNC: 6988
- NCBI Entrez: 16406
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105679
- OMIM: 602775
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O95983

Aliases for MBD3 include MGC12454, MGC126865, MGC126866, MGC126868, and P66-beta.

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
The MBD3 gene has various mutations associated with pathologies as per literature available on date, such as:

- **dbSNP ID: rs786205510**; mutation: c.2456G>T; p.(Ser819Ile)
- **dbSNP ID: rs797044267**; mutation: c.2053G>C; p.(Asp685His)
- **dbSNP ID: rs797044268**; mutation: c.329G>T; p.(Trp110Cys)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
None found

## Related diseases
Mutations in the MBD3 gene have been linked to several pathologies including:

- Mental retardation and microcephaly with pontine and cerebellar hypoplasia (OMIM: 614569)
- Encephalopathy, neonatal severe (OMIM: 614800)
- Immunodeficiency 37 (OMIM: 616098)

## Treatment and prognosis
There is no known cure or treatment for conditions caused by MBD3 mutations. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive.

## Drug response
Unknown

## References
- [MBD3 Gene - GeneCards]([Click](https://www.genecards.org/cgi-bin/carddisp.pl?gene=MBD3)
- [OMIM - MBD3]([Click](https://www.omim.org/entry/602775?search=mbd3&highlight=mbd3) 

**Note:** This information is for educational purposes only and should not be used for diagnostic or treatment purposes. Please consult with a licensed healthcare provider for personalized medical advice.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**