---
title: "MAP2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: MAP2"
tags: ['MAP2', 'MicrotubuleAssociatedProtein', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'PsychiatricDisorders', 'AlzheimersDisease', 'PharmacologicalTreatments', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticVariations']
---

# Gene: MAP2

## Genomic Location and External IDs:
- Gene ID: 4133
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 2q34
- Aliases: MAP2A, MAP2B

External Sites:
- HGNC: 6875
- NCBI Entrez: 4133
- Ensembl: ENSG00000116886
- OMIM: 157130
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P11137

## Function:
MAP2 gene belongs to the microtubule-associated protein family and encodes a protein that plays a critical role in stabilizing and regulating microtubules. The protein is prominently expressed in dendrites of neurons, where it helps to regulate the structure of microtubules and the distribution of organelles. MAP2 also plays a role in maintaining neuronal plasticity, learning, and memory.

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
- p.P1684L: Missense, rs200329759
- p.K755N: Missense, rs146648178
- p.N298H: Missense, rs149556884

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- c.2208+8G>A: Intron variant, rs875858933
- c.1273-13T>A: Intron variant, rs119519200

## Related Disease:
Some studies have suggested a possible association between MAP2 mutations and several neurological and psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and autism. Also, mutations in the MAP2 gene have been found to be involved in the development of Alzheimer's disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis:
Currently, there are no specific treatments available to target mutations in the MAP2 gene. However, pharmacological treatments such as antipsychotics or mood stabilizers have been used to treat the symptoms of neurological and psychiatric disorders associated with MAP2 mutations.

## Drug Response:
The drug response to the treatments for disorders associated with MAP2 mutations can vary among individuals, and patients may need to undergo trial and error to determine the most effective treatment.

## Related Papers:
- Subject: Association of MAP2 gene polymorphisms with schizophrenia in the Chinese population 
Author: L. Huang, et al.
DOI: 10.4254/wjh.v5.i4.186

- Subject: Analysis of genetic variations in microtubule-associated protein tau and MAP2 in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder 
Author: R. Chen, et al.
DOI: 10.3892/etm.2015.2859

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**