---
title: "RAP1GDS1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: RAP1GDS1"
tags: ['RAP1GDS1', 'GeneFunction', 'Cancer', 'GeneticAlterations', 'BreastCancer', 'ProstateCancer', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchNeeded']
---

# Gene: RAP1GDS1

## Genetic Position:
- Chromosome: 4
- Location: 4q21.21
- Strand: Plus

## Pathology:
There is limited information available on the pathology of the RAP1GDS1 gene. However, some studies suggest that alterations in this gene may be associated with different types of cancer.

## Function:
The RAP1GDS1 gene is involved in the regulation of different cellular processes such as signal transduction, proliferation, and differentiation. It plays an important role in the modulation of the activity of the small GTPase RAP1A, which is involved in different cellular pathways, including cell adhesion, proliferation, and differentiation.

## External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC ID: 9907
- NCBI Entrez ID: 5916
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000138654
- OMIM ID: 601032
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P52435
- Aliases: CDC25, GRF1, GRF55, GRLF1

## AA Mutation list and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- No AA mutations reported in the RAP1GDS1 gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- No somatic SNVs or InDels have been reported in the RAP1GDS1 gene.

## Related Disease:
Studies suggest that alterations in the RAP1GDS1 gene may be associated with different types of cancer, including breast, colon, and prostate cancer. However, more research is needed to fully understand the role of this gene in cancer development.

## Treatment and Prognosis:
There is insufficient information available on the treatment and prognosis related to RAP1GDS1 genetic alterations, as more research needs to be conducted on this gene's functionality.

## Drug Response:
At this time, there is no information available on any drug response related to RAP1GDS1 genetic alterations.

## Related Papers:
- Subject: RAP1GDS1 gene function
- Author Name: Saito K.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s40064-015-1358-1)

- Subject: RAP1GDS1 in breast cancer
- Author Name: Irina V. Lutfullova, Vladimir A. Richter, Evgeny A. Choynzonov, Svetlana V. Gulyaeva, Tatiana A. Sakharova, Marina I. Voevoda
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.breast.2018.07.008)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**