---
title: "CNTN1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene CNTN1"
tags: ['CNTN1', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'NeuronalCellAdhesion', 'GeneticMutations', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'PhysicalTherapy', 'OccupationalTherapy']
---

## Information about Gene CNTN1

* **Genetic Position**: The CNTN1 gene is located on the long (q) arm of chromosome 12 at position 12q22.

* **Pathology**: Mutations in the CNTN1 gene have been associated with several neurological disorders such as congenital hypomyelination neuropathy, and hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy.

* **Function**: The CNTN1 gene encodes a member of the contactin family of proteins. Contactins are neuronal cell adhesion molecules that play a role in the formation and maintenance of neural network, specifically in the development and function of the nervous system.

* **Aliases**: The gene CNTN1 is also known by other names such as BCH, BIG-2, F3, KSGF, and PANG.

* **External IDs**:
   * HGNC: 2200
   * NCBI Entrez: 1272
   * Ensembl: ENSG00000168077
   * OMIM: 600016
   * UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q12860
   
* **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID**:
There are several missense mutations found in the CNTN1 gene, such as:
   * p.Ser220Phe, rs200850032
   * p.Thr262Met, rs79704503
   * p.Lys413Gln, rs150969387
   * p.Met448Val, rs1051895317
   
* **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: Currently, there are no known somatic mutations in the CNTN1 gene.

* **Related Disease**: Mutations in the CNTN1 gene have been associated with several neurological disorders such as congenital hypomyelination neuropathy, and hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy.

* **Treatment and Prognosis**: There is currently no cure for CNTN1-related diseases. Treatment options aim to manage symptoms and improve quality of life. Prognosis and life expectancy vary depending on the severity of the disease.

* **Drug Response**: There is no known specific drug for CNTN1-related diseases. Treatment options typically involve physical therapy, occupational therapy, and medications for pain and muscle weakness.

* **Reference Links**: 

   * Article Title: Contactin-1 in neuropsychiatric disorders: genetic, functional, and clinical insights
    
   * Subject: CNTN1 gene and its association with neuropsychiatric disorders
    
   * Author Name: Pinto M, Gago MF, Vicente AM
    
   * DOI link: 10.1007/s00406-018-0914-7

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**