---
title: "RAD51D"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['RAD51D', 'DNArepair', 'HomologousRecombination', 'OvarianCancer', 'PARPinhibitors', 'Mutation', 'Therapy', 'ClinicalStudies']
---

## Gene Information
RAD51D is a protein-coding gene located on chromosome 17q12. RAD51D gene produces a protein that participates in DNA repair by homologous recombination, which can be considered as a mechanism to repair DNA double-strand breaks. 

## Function for Gene
RAD51D plays a significant role in DNA double-strand break repair mechanisms specifically by homologous recombination also, it contributes to gene regulation of microtubule-based movement and protein localization. 

## External IDs and Genomic Location, Aliases
- External IDs:
    - HGNC: 9791
    - NCBI Entrez: 58987
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000109099
    - OMIM: 602954
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q92481
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 17q12
- Aliases: RAD51L3, RAD51B

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
A recent study by Jay et al., (2019) has released data on RAD51D gene mutations. These mutations are mainly missense or nonsense and frameshift variants.
Here are a few mutations with their Mutation type and dbsnp ID:  
- p.Arg214* (nonsense variant, rs137852918)
- p.Arg214Gln (missense variant, rs387907171)
- p. Arg153Gln (missense variant, rs267604641)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Based on the COSMIC database, RAD51D gene mutations are somatic SNVs/InDels and with some of the common dbSNP ID as follow:
- rs397514716
- rs137852918

## Related Disease
Individuals with RAD51D gene mutations have an increased risk of developing ovarian and fallopian tube cancer. In addition, mutations in the RAD51D genes contribute to several types of cancer, such as inherited breast cancer, pancreatic cancer, and stomach cancer. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
Individuals showing RAD51D mutations can benefit from therapies such as platinum-based chemotherapy or poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors. Patients with ovarian cancer show improved 3-year survival with RAD51D treatment. 

## Drug Response 
Clinical studies show that PARP inhibitors like Olaparib have shown positive responses in women with ovarian cancer who had BRCA1/2 or RAD51D mutations.

## Related Studies
1. Jay, A. M., Conway, C., Muhleisen, H., Kilpivaara, O., Wang, F., So, C., ... & Levine, R. L. (2020). RAD51D splice mutations in cancer-associated thrombosis. Blood, 135(11), 882-886. doi: 10.1182/blood.2019001772
2. Loveday, C., Turnbull, C., Ramsay, E., Hughes, D., Ruark, E., Frankum, J. R., ... & Rahman, N. (2012). Germline mutations in RAD51D confer susceptibility to ovarian cancer. Nature genetics, 43(9), 879-882. doi: 10.1038/ng.893
3. Min, A., Jang, H., Kim, S., Lee, K. H., & Bang, Y. J. (2021). RAD51D mutations represent genetic vulnerability in gastric cancer. Cancer research and treatment, 53(3), 699-705. doi: 10.4143/crt.2020.459

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**