---
title: "WNT5A"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information Analysis for Gene WNT5A"
tags: ['WNT5A', 'GeneticVariations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'RobinowSyndrome', 'ColorectalCancer']
---

# Genetic Information Analysis for Gene WNT5A

## General Information 
- Gene: WNT5A
- Function: WNT5A gene encodes a protein that belongs to the WNT family of secreted signaling proteins, which involved in various cellular processes, including differentiation, proliferation, and polarity.
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 3 (3p14.3)
- Aliases: Wnt-5a, hWNT5A, hWNT-5A 

## External IDs 
- HGNC: 12791
- NCBI Entrez: 7474
- Ensembl: ENSG00000134531
- OMIM: 164975
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P41221

## Genetic Variations
- AA Mutation List:
    - A loss-of-function mutation (p.Asp200GlyfsTer23) in WNT5A has been suggested to be associated with autosomal dominant Robinow syndrome.
- Mutation Type: Indel
- dbSNP ID: rs900834667

- Somatic SNVs/InDels:
    - A somatic mutation (c.654C>A) in WNT5A has been identified in colorectal cancer.
- dbSNP ID: rs587779744


## Related Diseases
- Robinow Syndrome: WNT5A is associated with autosomal dominant Robinow syndrome, which is characterized by skeletal abnormalities including shortening of limbs and fingers, facial anomalies, and genital hypoplasia.

- Colorectal Cancer: WNT5A is involved in regulating the pathway that controls cell migration, invasion, metastasis, and angiogenesis in colorectal cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Robinow Syndrome: Treatment management is symptomatic and supportive. The prognosis depends on the severity of the symptoms.

- Colorectal Cancer: Various therapies are used to treat colorectal cancer, including chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and targeted therapy. The response to treatment and prognosis depend on the stage of cancer at diagnosis and individual factors.

## Drug Response
- WNT5A has been identified as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of various cancers, including melanoma and glioblastoma. Preclinical studies have suggested that targeting WNT5A can inhibit tumor growth and metastasis.

## Related Papers
- Subject: WNT5A mutation causes autosomal dominant Robinow Syndrome.
  - Author: White JJ, Mazzeu JF, Hoischen A, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1038/ng.884
- Subject: WNT5A promotes colorectal cancer progression through the noncanonical Wnt signaling pathway.
  - Author: Kim Y, Kim KH, Lee J, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1038/cdd.2018.122
- Subject: Targeting non-canonical WNT5A signaling attenuates AP-1 activity and inhibits breast cancer metastasis.
  - Author: Ramsay EE, Hogg PJ, Dilda PJ.
  - DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2004789117

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**