---
title: "FLG"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene FLG"
tags: ['FLG', 'Filaggrin', 'SkinBarrier', 'AtopicDermatitis', 'IchthyosisVulgaris', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene FLG

FLG (filaggrin) gene codes for the filaggrin protein, which plays a key role in maintaining the skin barrier, preventing water loss and protecting the skin against external agents. Mutations in the FLG gene result in an insufficient amount or decreased function of filaggrin protein, causing several skin conditions.

## Gene Function
The filaggrin protein is synthesized in the granular layer of the epidermis as a large precursor protein, which is subsequently broken down into small constituents that contribute to the structure and function of the stratum corneum. The breakdown products facilitate the aggregation of keratin fibers and contribute to the formation of the cornified envelope, which is essential in forming a functional skin barrier.

## External IDs and Genomic Location
- HGNC:3912
- Entrez Gene:2312
- Ensembl:ENSG00000143632
- OMIM: 135940
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:Q9BWW2

FLG gene is located on chromosome 1q21.3.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.3321delA : Frame-shift mutation
   - rs118204009
- c.2282del4 : Frame-shift mutation
  - rs262309864

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No known somatic SNVs/InDels are available for FLG gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the FLG gene are associated with atopic dermatitis (AD), ichthyosis vulgaris, and other skin conditions.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for atopic dermatitis, and treatment is aimed at managing symptoms. The use of emollients and corticosteroids is the primary therapy for both AD and ichthyosis vulgaris. Prognosis depends on disease severity, clinical subtype, and associated conditions.

## Drug Response
There is no specific drug currently available for the FLG gene mutation. In patients with atopic dermatitis or ichthyosis vulgaris, topical corticosteroids, and other moisturizing emollients are the key medications.

## Papers and Authors
1. Sandilands A, Sutherland C, Irvine AD, McLean WH (June 2009). "Filaggrin in the frontline: role in skin barrier function and disease". J. Cell Sci. 122 (Pt 9): 1285–94.
2. Kezic S, Jakasa I (January 2016). "Filaggrin and Skin Barrier Function". Curr. Probl. Dermatol. Current Problems in Dermatology. 49: 1–7.
3. Presland RB, Haydock PV, Fleckman P, Nirunsuksiri W, Dale BA (February 1997). "Filaggrin-2, a novel member of the filaggrin family of intermediate filament-associated proteins". J. Biol. Chem. 272 (9): 6050–7. 

DOI links to related papers
- [Sandilands et al., 2009]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1242/jcs.033969))
- [Kezic and Jakasa, 2016]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1159/000441126))
- [Presland et al., 1997]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.272.9.6050))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**