---
title: "GAA"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene GAA"
tags: ['GAAgene', 'PompeDisease', 'EnzymeReplacementTherapy', 'Mutation', 'GeneticPosition', 'Pathology', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene GAA

## Genetic Position
GAA gene is located on chromosome 17q25.3. 

## Pathology
Mutations in the GAA gene cause glycogen storage disease type II, also known as Pompe disease. This condition affects the breakdown and use of glycogen in the body's cells. 

## Function of Gene
The GAA gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called acid alpha-glucosidase, which breaks down glycogen into glucose. 

## External IDs, Genomic Location and Aliases 
- External IDs: HGNC: 4178, Entrez Gene: 2548, Ensembl: ENSG00000126218, OMIM: 606800, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P10253
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 17q25.3
- Aliases: MGC116786, acid alpha-glucosidase, acid maltase

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
The following are a few commonly known mutations of the GAA gene: 

| AA Mutation    | Mutation Type         | dbSNP ID (if available) |
|----------------|-----------------------|--------------------------|
| p.Asp645Glu     | Missense Mutation | rs80338601                    |
| p.Gly576Ser     | Missense Mutation | rs61753294                    |
| p.Gly542Arg     | Missense Mutation | rs80338600                    |
| p.Trp746Ter   | Nonsense Mutation| rs121908207                    |
| p.Gly610Arg     | Missense Mutation | rs80338608                    |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels of GAA gene with dbSNP ID.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the GAA gene cause glycogen storage disease type II, also known as Pompe disease. This condition affects the breakdown and use of glycogen in the body's cells.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) is an effective treatment for Pompe disease. The earlier the treatment is started, the better the prognosis. However, ERT may not be effective in advanced cases.

## Drug Response
In general, enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) is effective in treating Pompe disease. The response to treatment can vary based on the types of mutations present in the GAA gene.

## Related Papers
- Hirschhorn R. Pompe disease: from basic science to therapeutic challenges. In: Scriver C, Beaudet A, Sly W, Valle D, eds. The Metabolic and Molecular Bases of Inherited Disease. Vol 3. 8th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill; 2001: 3389–3420.
- Kishnani PS, Howell RR. Pompe disease in infants and children. Journal of Pediatrics. 2004;144:S35-S43. doi:10.1016/j.jpeds.2004.01.056. 
- Nicolino M, Byrne B, Wraith JE, et al. Clinical outcomes after long-term treatment with alglucosidase alfa in infants and children with advanced Pompe disease. Genetics in Medicine. 2009; 11:210–219. doi: 10.1097/GIM.0b013e31819d073e.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**