---
title: "CDAN1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# CDAN1 Gene Information"
tags: ['CDAN1', 'CongenitalDyserythropoieticAnemia', 'RedBloodCells', 'GeneMutation', 'BloodDisorder', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

# CDAN1 Gene Information

## Genetic Position

The CDAN1 gene is located on chromosome 15 at the position 15q15.2.

## Pathology and Function

CDAN1 encodes a protein called codanin-1, which plays a critical role in the development and maintenance of red blood cells. Mutations in the CDAN1 gene can lead to a rare blood disorder called congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type 1 (CDA1). CDA1 is characterized by ineffective erythropoiesis, leading to anemia and an abnormal morphology of red blood cells.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location

- HGNC ID: 17868
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 23133
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000140374
- OMIM ID: 224120
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9H165
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 15, 15q15.2
- Aliases: CDA1, C15orf32, FLJ34268, KIAA1899, hCodanin-1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

The following is a list of amino acid mutations in the CDAN1 gene along with their mutation type and dbSNP ID:
- p.Gly592Ala (missense, rs757730557)
- p.Arg776Cys (missense, rs80338728)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no reports of somatic SNVs/InDels in CDAN1 gene listed in dbSNP.

## Related Disease

Mutations in the CDAN1 gene can lead to congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type 1 (CDA1).

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no cure for congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type 1 (CDA1). Treatment options include blood transfusions, iron chelation therapy, and bone marrow transplantation. The prognosis for CDA1 varies depending on the severity of the disorder and the effectiveness of treatment.

## Drug Response

There is no specific drug response information available for CDAN1 mutations.

## Related Papers

- Niss O, Taylor-Beard SM, Maarouf N, et al. Congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type I: report of a patient with compound heterozygous CDAN1 mutations. Blood Cells Mol Dis. 2013;50(1):61-65. doi: [10.1016/j.bcmd.2012.09.002](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bcmd.2012.09.002))
- Liu G, Zhang Z, Lv B, Li Y, Kong F, Zhu Y, Xia J, Zhang H. A new CDAN1 variant in a Chinese family with congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type I (CDAI). Gene. 2022 Jan 5;810:145996. doi: [10.1016/j.gene.2021.145996](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gene.2021.145996))
- Bianchi P, Fermo E, Lezon-Geyda K, van Beers EJ, Morton HD, Barcellini W, Glader B, Chonat S, Ravindranath Y, Newburger PE, Kollmar N. Genotype-phenotype correlation and molecular heterogeneity in congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type IV. Haematologica. 2020 Nov 11:haematol.2020.261148. doi: [10.3324/haematol.2020.261148](https://doi.org/10.3324/haematol.2020.261148))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**