---
title: "LMNB2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene LMNB2"
tags: ['LMNB2', 'GeneticInformation', 'NuclearLamina', 'ProgeriaSyndrome', 'Cancer', 'Chromosome19', 'LaminB2', 'Farnesylation']
---

# Information about gene LMNB2

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

### Genetic Position
The LMNB2 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 19. It spans over 105.58 kb and is positioned at 19q13.42.

### Pathology
The LMNB2 gene is associated with several diseases. Mutation or dysfunction in this gene is linked with Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS), a rare premature aging disorder that usually manifests in childhood. Besides, alterations in LMNB2 have also been reported in several types of cancer, including lung, breast, ovarian, and liver cancer.

### Function
The LMNB2 gene encodes lamin B2, a protein that belongs to the family of lamins involved in the formation of the nuclear lamina, a thin layer of fibrous proteins that supports the nuclear envelope. Lamin B2 plays a crucial role in maintaining the structural and functional integrity of the nuclear envelope and is also involved in chromatin organization, gene regulation, and DNA replication.

## Gene Information

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 6643
- NCBI Entrez: 84823
- Ensembl: ENSG00000104858
- OMIM: 150341
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P20700
- Alias: LMN2, LMNB, LMNBH

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.631C>G (p.Lys211Asn) - rs200891928
- c.848G>A (p.Gly283Arg) - rs374624841
- c.949G>A (p.Gly317Asp) - rs769947372
- c.956C>A (p.Pro319Thr) - rs368907202

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs1085305214
- rs56056102
- rs372903653
- rs117756739

## Related Disease
- Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome
- Lung Cancer
- Breast Cancer
- Ovarian Cancer
- Liver Cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for HGPS, and the treatments available focus on managing symptoms and improving the quality of life of patients. Similarly, the treatment and prognosis of cancer associated with LMNB2 alterations depend on the stage and type of cancer and other patient-specific factors.

## Drug Response
No specific drugs have been developed to target LMNB2 directly, but researchers are exploring the potential of compounds that can inhibit farnesylation, a process that contributes to the aberrant localization of the lamin A isoform in HGPS.

## Related Papers
- [Lamin B2 Modulates Nucleolar Morphology, Dynamics, and Function](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2019.06.022)
- [An Aberrant Splice Acceptor Site Mutation in the Gene Encoding Lamin B2 Results in a Progeroid Syndrome](https://doi.org/10.1086/302029)
- [Proteomics of Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome cells: Focus on nuclear envelope proteome alterations and cytoskeletal rearrangements](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbapap.2017.01.013)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**