---
title: "SOX3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SOX3"
tags: ['SOX3', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'XLinkedHypopituitarism', 'EmbryonicDevelopment', 'HormoneProduction', 'Mutation', 'HormoneReplacementTherapy', 'PituitaryGland']
---

# Information about Gene SOX3

## Genetic Position:
SOX3 is a transcription factor gene located on the X chromosome. Its genomic location is Xq27.1.

## Pathology:
Mutations in SOX3 usually cause X-linked recessive hypopituitarism, which is a disorder characterized by underdevelopment or absence of the pituitary gland and multiple deficiencies in hormone production.

## Function:
SOX3 plays an important role in embryonic development and regulates the expression of several genes involved in pituitary development and hormone synthesis.

## External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 11193
- NCBI Entrez: 6658
- Ensembl: ENSG00000102142
- OMIM: 313430
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P41225

Aliases:
- ANOP3
- SRXY1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
The following are some common missense mutations in SOX3:
- p.Arg71Gln (rs79635513)
- p.Pro96Ser (rs121908892)
- p.Ser107Phe (rs267607162)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
Currently, there are no reports of somatic mutations in SOX3.

## Related Disease:
SOX3 mutations are associated with X-linked recessive hypopituitarism, which is a rare condition characterized by deficiencies in hormone production caused by an underdeveloped or absent pituitary gland. 

## Treatment and Prognosis:
The management of X-linked recessive hypopituitarism involves hormone replacement therapy. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disease and the effectiveness of hormone replacement therapy.

## Drug Response:
There have been no reported drug responses specific to SOX3 mutations.

## Related Papers:
- Subject: Molecular analysis of SOX3 gene mutations in a large cohort of patients with X-linked hypopituitarism in Japan
- Author: Yoshimoto et al.
- DOI: 10.1111/cen.12195

- Subject: SOX3 gene dosage is critical for development of the hypothalamo-pituitary system and related diseases
- Author: Akula et al.
- DOI:10.1152/ajpendo.00048.2019

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**