---
title: "SLC35A3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information: SLC35A3"
tags: ['SLC35A3', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticDisorders', 'MissenseMutation', 'SchneckenbeckenDysplasia', 'OsteogenesisImperfecta', 'EhlersDanlosSyndrome', 'GeneticAnalysis']
---

## Gene Information: SLC35A3

### 1. Genetic Position: 

* Chromosomal Location: Chr. 1q42.3 
* Genomic Coordinates: 231,221,180-231,262,628 

### 2. Pathology:

SLC35A3 gene mutations have been associated with several disorders such as Schneckenbecken dysplasia, osteogenesis imperfecta type V, and Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.

### 3. Function:

The SLC35A3 gene encodes a solute carrier protein that is involved in the transport of nucleotide sugars from the cytosol to the Golgi lumen. This helps to facilitate glycosylation, which is critical for the proper function of proteins in many biological processes.

### 4. External IDs and Aliases:

* HGNC: 10981
* NCBI Entrez: 55323
* Ensembl: ENSG00000143012
* OMIM: 611236
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NT62
* Aliases: FLJ13109, UDP-GlcNAc transporter 

### 5. AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:

* p.Asn382Ser - rs747180064
* p.Thr331Ile - rs532911992
* p.Ala263Thr - rs145244009
* Mutation types: Missense 

### 6. Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels for the SLC35A3 gene.

### 7. Related Diseases:

* Schneckenbecken dysplasia
* Osteogenesis imperfecta type V 
* Ehlers-Danlos syndrome 

### 8. Treatment and Prognosis:

Treatment and prognosis may vary depending on the specific disorder associated with SLC35A3 gene mutation.

### 9. Drug Response:

There is no known drug response associated with SLC35A3 gene mutations.

### Related Papers:

* Subject: Schneckenbecken dysplasia and the DTDST gene: Novel mutations, genotype-phenotype correlations, and diagnostic recommendations.
  * Author: Forlino A, Piazza R, Tiveron C, et al.
  * DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.34169

* Subject: Recurrent SLC35A3 mutations affecting the Golgi transporter GCC185 cause a distinct, severe, recessive form of skeletal dysplasia.
  * Author: Nakajima M, Mizumoto S, Miyake N, et al.
  * DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2014.03.005

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**