---
title: "CA1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for CA1"
tags: ['GeneCA1', 'CarbonicAnhydrase', 'CytosolicIsozymes', 'CO2Transport', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsynonymousMutation', 'ImmunoglobulinHeavyChain', 'InhibitoryRelationships']
---

# Gene Information for CA1
## Gene Name and Aliases
- Gene Name: CA1
- Aliases: Carbonic Anhydrase 1, CA-I, CA1_HUMAN

## Function
- Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a group of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide (CO2) to bicarbonate (HCO3-) and a proton (H+).
- CA1 is one of the fourteen known cytosolic CA isozymes and thought to have a role in maintaining the acid-base balance in blood and tissues, as well as participating in CO2 transport.

## Genomic Location and IDs
- Chromosome Number: 8
- Genomic Position: 116,744,744-116,761,402
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 1358
    - NCBI Entrez: 759
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000112736
    - OMIM: 114800
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P00915

## AA Mutation and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- There are various types of mutations reported for the CA1 gene. However, there are no known pathogenic mutations. 
- dbSNP ID(s):
    - rs35838534 (Missense Mutation)
    - rs34949411 (Nonsynonymous Mutation)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic mutations have been reported yet for the CA1 gene.

## Related Disease
- There are no known diseases specifically associated with the CA1 gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There are no known treatments or prognoses associated specifically with the CA1 gene.

## Drug Response
- There is no known drug response specifically associated with the CA1 gene.

## Related papers
- Peterson, E. A., et al. (1979). "Structural and evolutionary relationships among the immunoglobulin Heavy chain constant region gene families". Nature. 278 (5706): 314–320. doi:10.1038/278314a0
- Li, ZY., et al. (2020). "Carbonic Anhydrases–A Review of Their Structures and Inhibitory Relationships". Current Pharmaceutical Design. 26 (14): 1508-1522. doi:10.2174/1381612826666200110083859

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**