---
title: "BBS9"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene BBS9"
tags: ['BBS9', 'CiliaryFunction', 'BardetBiedlSyndrome', 'GeneticMutation', 'DrugResponse', 'OMIM', 'UniProtKB', 'Ensembl']
---

## Gene BBS9
### Information

- **Genetic Position**: Chromosome 7:143,372,902-143,428,657
- **Pathology**: Bardet-Biedl Syndrome type 9 (BBS9)
- **Function**: BBS9 is involved in ciliary function and DNA damage response. It plays a role in regulating microtubule structures, cell signaling, and protein trafficking in cilia, which are critical for eye, kidney, and neural development.
- **External IDs**: HGNC:11659, NCBI Entrez: 79736, Ensembl: ENSG00000106558, OMIM: 607968, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N3R9.
- **Aliases**: PTHB1, BBS9, PRO1604.

### Mutations

- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID**: N/A

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: N/A

### Related Diseases

BBS9 mutations have been linked to Bardet-Biedl Syndrome (BBS), which is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by retinal degeneration, obesity, cognitive impairment, genital anomalies, and renal abnormalities.

### Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no cure for the disease, and the treatment focuses on managing specific features of Bardet-Biedl syndrome.

### Drug Response

There is no known targeted therapy for BBS9 mutations. However, some drugs may alleviate specific symptoms, such as the use of metformin to manage lipid problems.

### Related Papers

- **Subject**: Comprehensive Analysis of Known Bardet-Biedl Syndrome Genes Implicates Novel Genes and Pathways in Patients.
- **Author Name**: Forsythe, E. & Beales, P. L.
- **DOI Links**: [10.1002/humu.23120](https://doi.org/10.1002/humu.23120))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**