---
title: "A4GNT"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene A4GNT"
tags: ['GeneA4GNT', 'Cancer', 'Glycosyltransferase', 'ThomsenFriedenreichAntigen', 'GeneticMutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene A4GNT

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

- **Genetic Position**: A4GNT gene is located on chromosome 3q27.1.
- **Pathology**: Mutations in the A4GNT gene have been associated with various types of cancers such as gastric cancer, pancreatic cancer, and colorectal cancer.
- **Function for gene**: A4GNT gene encodes for a glycosyltransferase enzyme that is involved in the biosynthesis of the Thomsen-Friedenreich antigen, which is a carbohydrate antigen that is expressed on the surface of many cancer cells.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Sites

- **External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location**: Gene ID: 51146; Genomic Location: NC_000003.12 (191,358,220...191,376,646).
- **Aliases**: Glycosyltransferase A4GNT, alpha-1,4-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase, N-acetyllactosaminide alpha-1,4-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase, A4GALT2.
- **External Sites**: 
    - HGNC: 36096
    - NCBI Entrez: 51146
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000170363
    - OMIM: 611793
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N0U3

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

Currently, there are no known mutations in the coding region of the A4GNT gene listed in the dbSNP database.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

Currently, there are no known somatic mutations in the A4GNT gene listed in the dbSNP database.

## Related Disease

Mutations in the A4GNT gene have been associated with various types of cancers such as gastric cancer, pancreatic cancer, and colorectal cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment and prognosis for cancer patients with A4GNT mutations will depend on the type and stage of cancer.

## Drug Response

Currently, there is no information available about drug response related to mutations in the A4GNT gene.

## Related Papers

- **Subject:** The Thomsen-Friedenreich antigen and alpha2,3-sialylated and alpha1,3/4-fucosylated glycans in cancer biology.
  - **Author:** Ju T, Otto VI, Cummings RD
  - **DOI link:** [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16842124/)
- **Subject:** A genome-wide association study in the Japanese population identifies susceptibility loci for type 2 diabetes at UBE2E2 and C2CD4A-C2CD4B.
  - **Author:** Imamura M, Takahashi A, Yamauchi T, Hara K, Yasuda K, Grarup N, Zhao W, Wang X, Hu FB, et al.
  - **DOI link:** [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21937658/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**