---
title: "PLG"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: PLG"
tags: ['PLG', 'Plasminogen', 'Fibrinolysis', 'CardiovascularDiseases', 'PlasminogenDeficiency', 'TranexamicAcid', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene: PLG

### Information

**Genetic position:** Chromosome 6 (6q26) 

**Pathology:** PLG (Plasminogen) mutations have been correlated with alterations of fibrinolysis, hyperfibrinolysis, and pathophysiology of cardiovascular diseases.

**Function:** PLG encodes for plasminogen, which activates plasmin, a serine protease that provides a significant role in fibrinolysis (the breakdown of blood clots).

**External IDs:**
- Gene ID: 5340
- Aliases: DKFZp686K05239, MGC2188
- Genomic Location: NC_000006.12 (41321853..41471450)

**External Sites:**
- HGNC: 9066
- NCBI Entrez: 5340
- Ensembl: ENSG00000106366
- OMIM: 173350
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P00747

**AA Mutation List:**
|AA Position|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|404|Missense|rs56314255|
|441|Missense|rs72552714|
|517|Missense|rs17748552|
|559|Missense|rs2835|

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
|dbSNP ID|Mutation Type|
|---|---|
|rs55858301|SNV|
|rs55903371|SNV|
|rs148820619|SNV|

**Related Disease:** 
- Plasminogen Deficiency: A rare autosomal recessive disorder that leads to chronic mucosal pseudomembrane formation in some individuals. 

**Treatment and Prognosis:**
- Plasminogen replacement therapy
- Prognosis varies based on severity of symptoms and response to treatment.

**Drug Response:**
- Tranexamic Acid: a drug that helps prevent the breakdown of blood clots and is used to treat Plasminogen Deficiency.

### References:

- Gurewich V, Pannell R. Recombinant human plasminogen for treatment of critical bleeding: a review. Biologics. 2020;14:1–11. DOI: 10.2147/BTT.S231319
- Pons M, Fusté B, Pujol M, et al. Homozygous type I plasminogen deficiency leading to severe mucosal and diffuse alveolar hemorrhage in a juvenile: Successful treatment with tranexamic acid. Thromb Res. 2020;189:1-3. DOI: 10.1016/j.thromres.2020.04.024
- OMIM. PLASMINOGEN; PLG. [updated 2021 Jul 13, cited 2021 Jul 20]. Available from: [Click](https://www.omim.org/entry/173350)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**