---
title: "MRRF"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: MRRF"
tags: ['MRRF', 'MitochondrialDisorders', 'LeighSyndrome', 'MELAS', 'MitochondrialMyopathy', 'RibosomeRecyclingFactor', 'GeneticVariants', 'MultidisciplinaryTreatment']
---

# Gene: MRRF

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: MT (Mitochondrial chromosome)
- Location: 22,514-23,137
- Strand: plus strand

## Pathology
- MRRF (Mitochondrial Ribosome Recycling Factor) gene is highly conserved in bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes.
- Variants in the MRRF gene have been associated with Leigh syndrome, a progressive neurological disorder caused by damage to the brain.
- Additionally, mutations in the MRRF gene have also been linked to other mitochondrial disorders such as mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS) and mitochondrial myopathy.

## Function
- The MRRF gene encodes a protein called Mitochondrial Ribosome Recycling Factor (MRRF), which is involved in the translation of genetic material into proteins within mitochondria.
- MRRF acts as a ribosome recycling factor in the mitochondria, releasing the mRNA and tRNA after the termination of protein synthesis.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 7430
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 4543
- Ensembl: ENSG00000198786
- OMIM: 157640
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y3B4
- Alias: MRRF, C12orf65, MTSW, bA164L6.2

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.256T>C, p.Leu86Ser, rs121434379
- c.740C>T, p.Arg247Ter, rs750894503
- c.287T>C, p.Ser96Pro, rs201732492
- c.629A>G, p.Lys210Arg, rs752710122

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No relevant information is available

## Related Diseases
- Leigh Syndrome
- Mitochondrial Encephalomyopathy, Lactic Acidosis, and Stroke-Like Episodes (MELAS)
- Mitochondrial Myopathy

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no cure available for mitochondrial diseases.
- Treatment of mitochondrial diseases generally takes a multidisciplinary approach with a focus on improving quality of life and preventing complications.
- Prognosis depends on the severity and progression of the disease.

## Drug Response
- No relevant information is available

## Related Papers
- Subject: Pathogenic variants in MT-ATP6, MT-CO1, and MT-MRRF genes in Iranian patients with mitochondrial disorder
- Author: Fazeli K, et al.
- DOI: 10.1007/s00439-021-02279-9

- Subject: Novel pathogenic mutation in the MRRF gene cause severe mitochondrial disease
- Author: Scarpelli M, et al.
- DOI: 10.1111/cge.14057

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**