---
title: "HYDIN"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene HYDIN"
tags: ['HYDIN', 'Cilia', 'Hydrocephalus', 'CilialDyskinesia', 'Mutation', 'Genomics', 'Disease', 'Treatment']
---

# Information about Gene HYDIN

## Genetic Position
HYDIN gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 16. The genomic position of this gene is 16q22.2.

## Pathology
Mutations in the HYDIN gene have been associated with hydrocephalus and cilial dyskinesia.

## Function
HYDIN gene encodes the hydin protein, which is required for the proper formation and function of cilia. Cilia are cell organelles that are important for various biological processes, including motility, cell signaling, and sensory perception.

## External IDs
HGNC: 9
NCBI Entrez: 222257
Ensembl: ENSG00000099021
OMIM: 610068
UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H4I2

Aliases: HYDIN, HYDIN2, KIAA1009

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are various missense and frameshift mutations reported in HYDIN gene. Some of the common mutations with dbSNP IDs are as follows:

- R1510Q (rs772576000)
- R1069W (rs768040741)
- K2679fs (rs748930032)
- Q810K (rs755423155)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Some common somatic SNVs and InDels reported with dbSNP IDs are:

- c.4646A>G (rs773782729)
- c.849G>A (rs782577222)
- c.8420delG (rs784259746)

## Related Disease
Mutations in the HYDIN gene have been associated with hydrocephalus and cilial dyskinesia.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis of HYDIN-associated diseases depend on the severity of the symptoms and various factors.

## Drug Response
There is no reported drug response for HYDIN-associated diseases.

## Related Papers
- Name of the paper: HYDIN Mutations identified in Recurrent Hydrocephalus following Endoscopic Third Ventriculostomy with Choroid Plexus Coagulation. 
  - Author: C. A. Grocott, H. M. Upton, J. L. Cooper, E. R. Walker, S. K. Coles-Black and J. E. Connelly
  - DOI: 10.1080/02688697.2017.1305731

- Name of the paper: Mutations in HYDIN2, Encoding Axonemal Central Pair Protein Hydin2, Cause Hydrocephalus and Ciliary Defects. 
  - Author: Amy J. Wallace, Heike Olbrich, Eliška Häffner, Jeong Ho Lee, Hanka Plagnol, Fang Zhu, Heon Yung Gee, Saima Riazuddin, Tomoko E. Murthy, Miriam L. Griebel, Dominik J. Schmiedl, Mechthild M. Gross, Enza Maria Valente, Ginette Schibler, Katarzyna L. Patay, Iris L. Horvath, Heymut Omran and Nicholas Katsanis
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2013.06.007

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**