---
title: "IL12RB1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information Analysis: IL12RB1"
tags: ['IL12RB1', 'Interleukin12', 'Immuneresponse', 'Geneticdisorder', 'Immunodeficiency', 'Antibiotics', 'BoneMarrowTransplantation', 'PrimaryImmunodeficiencies']
---

# Gene Information Analysis: IL12RB1

## Gene
- IL12RB1 (Interleukin 12 Receptor Subunit Beta 1)

## Function
- IL12RB1 encodes a receptor subunit for interleukin-12, which is a cytokine involved in the immune response against pathogens. The receptor is found on the surface of immune cells and plays a crucial role in the signaling pathway that activates T cells and natural killer cells.

## External IDs and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 5999
- NCBI Entrez: 3594
- Ensembl: ENSG00000175416
- OMIM: 601604
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P42701
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 19q13.1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- AA Mutation List: Several mutations have been reported in IL12RB1, including missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations.
- Mutation Type: Pathogenic variations
- dbSNP ID: rs201707192, rs150638238, rs201518442, rs886043788

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- None reported.

## Related Disease
- Genetic variations in IL12RB1 have been associated with susceptibility to bacterial and mycobacterial infections. In particular, IL12RB1 deficiency is a rare genetic disorder that impairs the function of T cells and phagocytes, leading to recurrent infections, granulomatous inflammation, and compromised immunity.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment for IL12RB1 deficiency primarily involves managing the infections with antibiotics and antifungal agents, as well as bone marrow transplantation for severe cases. The prognosis varies depending on the severity of the immunodeficiency and the frequency and severity of infections.

## Drug Response
- No information reported.

## Related Papers
- Subject: IL12RB1 mutations
- Author: Picard, C.; Puel, A.; Bustamante, J.; et al.
- DOI: [10.1056/NEJMoa042126]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa042126))

- Subject: Primary immunodeficiencies
- Author: Casanova, J.L.; Abel, L.
- DOI: [10.1101/cshperspect.a002099]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1101/cshperspect.a002099))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**