---
title: "MTM1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene MTM1"
tags: ['MTM1', 'XLMTM', 'MyotubularMyopathy', 'MuscularDisorder', 'GeneTherapy', 'SymptomManagement', 'GeneticDiagnosis', 'TherapeuticTargets']
---

# Information about gene MTM1

## Genetic Position
The MTM1 gene is located on the X chromosome at position Xq28.

## Pathology
Mutations in the MTM1 gene cause X-linked myotubular myopathy (XLMTM), which is a rare inherited muscular disorder.

## Function
The MTM1 gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called myotubularin. This enzyme is important for the development and maintenance of muscle fibers. Mutations in the MTM1 gene lead to a deficiency or absence of myotubularin, which causes muscle weakness and atrophy.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 7435
- NCBI Entrez ID: 4534
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000133114
- OMIM ID: 300415
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q13496
- Alias: Myotubularin

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Val41Ala: Missense, rs387906565
- p.Thr286Ile: Missense, rs148563750
- p.Tyr260* (or p.Tyr352*): Nonsense, rs1553250391
- p.Gln283*: Frameshift, rs1553250884

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs112190323: c.1579A>G, p.Ile527Val

## Related Disease
Mutations in the MTM1 gene cause X-linked myotubular myopathy (XLMTM), which is a rare inherited muscular disorder. Symptoms of XLMTM may include hypotonia (low muscle tone), weakness, and difficulty breathing and swallowing.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for XLMTM, and treatment mainly involves managing the symptoms. However, gene therapy is currently being investigated as a potential treatment for XLMTM.

## Drug Response
There is limited information on drug response specifically for XLMTM, but some treatments that have been used to manage symptoms include steroids, noninvasive ventilator support, and physical therapy.

## Related Papers
- Author: Lawlor MW, Beggs AH
  - Title: The Importance of Genetic Diagnosis for Neuromuscular Disease and Opportunities for Improvement.
  - DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2012.660148
- Author: Tasfaout H, Cowling BS, Laporte J
  - Title: Centronuclear myopathies under attack: A plethora of therapeutic targets.
  - DOI: 10.1111/cge.13990

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**