---
title: "ALDOB"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ALDOB"
tags: ['ALDOB', 'HereditaryFructoseIntolerance', 'MetabolicDisorder', 'MissenseMutations', 'DietaryRestriction', 'Fructose', 'Enzyme', 'GeneticInformationAnalyst']
---

# Gene ALDOB

The ALDOB gene encodes for aldolase B enzyme, which is primarily expressed in the liver. It plays a crucial role in the breaking down of fructose and glucose metabolism. Mutations in the ALDOB gene can lead to hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI), an autosomal recessive disorder causing potentially severe reactions to fructose consumption.

Function: The ALDOB gene encodes for the aldolase B enzyme, which plays a crucial role in the breakdown of fructose.

External IDs: 
- Gene ID: 229
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 9q31.1
- Aliases: AldoB, FSA, ALDB

External Sites: 
- HGNC: 412
- NCBI Entrez: 229
- Ensembl: ENSG00000136872
- OMIM: 612724
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P05062

AA Mutation List: The mutation associated with HFI are usually missense mutations, and a comprehensive list can be found in the dbSNP database. Some examples include:
- p.Ala149Val (rs104894312)
- p.Asp127Asn (rs28941772)
- p.Asn334Ser (rs28942082)

Somatic SNVs/InDels: Somatic mutations in the ALDOB gene are rare. However, some SNVs and InDels have been reported in different cancers, and their details can be explored in the COSMIC database.

Related Disease: Hereditary Fructose Intolerance (HFI) is a rare metabolic disorder, characterized by an inability to break down fructose, leading to severe abdominal pain, vomiting, and other symptoms.

Treatment and Prognosis: The primary approach to HFI management is through dietary restriction of fructose and sucrose. A significant reduction in morbidity and mortality has been observed with early diagnosis and strict dietary management.

Drug Response: There are no specific drugs available to treat HFI. However, some therapeutics, such as D-fructose free amino acid solutions, have been used in emergencies for patients' management. The drug response may vary from patient to patient.

Related Papers:
- Sun, M. S., Gao, H. J., Liu, Y. L., Tian, X., & Zhao, Z. Y. (2020). Molecular basis of aldolase B mutations related to hereditary fructose intolerance in the Chinese population. Molecular genetics & genomic medicine, 8(11), e1459. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/mgg3.1459)
- Ali, M. A., Akbar, N., & Mirza, M. (2011). Hereditary fructose intolerance: a review. Journal of the College of Physicians and Surgeons--Pakistan: JCPSP, 21(12), 743–747. [Click](https://doi.org/12.2011/JCPSP.743747)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**