---
title: "PHKA2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene PHKA2"
tags: ['PHKA2', 'GSDIX', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'RelatedPapers']
---

## Information about Gene PHKA2

### Genetic Position
- PHKA2 gene is located on the Xq13.1 region of the X chromosome.

### Pathology
- Mutations in the PHKA2 gene are responsible for causing liver glycogen storage diseases, also known as Glycogen storage disease type IX (GSD-IX).
- GSD-IX is a rare inherited disorder that affects the liver's capability to store and break down glycogen, which is a complex sugar.
- This deficiency can lead to several health problems such as liver enlargement, muscle weakness, and growth retardation.

### Function for Gene
- PHKA2 (Phosphorylase kinase alpha 2) protein is a regulatory subunit of phosphorylase kinase, which is an essential enzyme involved in the breakdown of glycogen in the liver and skeletal muscles.
- It helps to activate glycogen phosphorylase, an enzyme that breaks down glycogen into glucose.

### External IDs, Aliases, and Locations
- Gene ID: 5241
- HGNC ID: 8993
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000147138
- OMIM ID: 306000
- NCBI Entrez ID: 5256
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P46020
- Alias: PHK
- Location: Xq13.1

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- Missense mutations in the PHKA2 gene are responsible for causing GSD-IX.
- Some of the known missense mutations in PHKA2 are:
    - p.Tyr195Cys (rs797044288)
    - p.Asp317Gly (rs1057518765)
    - p.Asp654Asn (rs104894263)
    - p.Cys680Tyr (rs797044287)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels available in the dbSNP database for the PHKA2 gene.

### Related Disease
- Glycogen storage disease type IX (GSD-IX)

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment options for GSD-IX mainly involve modifications in diet and lifestyle.
- The prognosis for individuals with GSD-IX depends on the severity of the condition and how effectively it is managed.

### Drug Response
- There is no specific drug or treatment available for GSD-IX.
- However, some of the symptoms such as hypoglycemia, muscle weakness, and cramps can be managed by medication.

### Related Papers
- Duno M, et al. (2016) PHKA2 mutation spectrum in danish patients with glycogen storage disease type IX: prevalence and phenotypic expression. JIMD Rep. 29:93-98. doi: 10.1007/8904_2015_5014.
- Hendrickx J, et al. (2016) PHKA2 mutation update: Diverse effects of the same mutation depending on the X-chromosomal inactivation pattern. Hum Mutat. 37(1): 32-39. doi: 10.1002/humu.22905.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**