---
title: "CCND2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene CCND2"
tags: ['CCND2', 'Cancer', 'CellCycle', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticMakeup', 'Prognosis', 'Palbociclib', 'CDK4/6']
---

### Gene CCND2

#### Genetic Position

The CCND2 gene is located on human chromosome 12. The genomic location of this gene is 12q13.12.

#### Pathology

The CCND2 gene is associated with several forms of cancer, including lymphoma, melanoma, breast cancer, and prostate cancer. In particular, the overexpression of CCND2 has been shown to be a driver of B-cell lymphoma.

#### Function

The CCND2 gene encodes the cyclin D2 protein, which plays an essential role in regulating the cell cycle in response to extracellular signals. Cyclin D2 forms a complex with CDK4 or CDK6, leading to the activation of CDKs and phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma protein.

#### External IDs and Aliases

- External IDs: HGNC:1774, NCBI Entrez: 894, Ensembl: ENSG00000175197, OMIM: 123836, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P30279
- Aliases: CCND2, Cyclin-D2, PRAD1

#### AA Mutation List and mutation type with dbSNP ID

Unfortunately, there are no AA mutations with dbSNP ID found for CCND2 gene. 

#### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

Unfortunately, there are no somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID found for CCND2 gene.

#### Related Disease

The CCND2 gene is associated with several forms of cancer, including lymphoma, melanoma, breast cancer, and prostate cancer.

#### Treatment and prognosis

The treatment and prognosis of cancer patients who present with abnormalities in the CCND2 gene will depend on several factors, such as the type and stage of the cancer.

#### Drug response

The response of cancer patients to drugs will vary based on several factors, including the patient's genetic makeup, the type and stage of the cancer, and the specific drug being used. Several drugs targeting the cyclin D-CDK4/6 signaling pathway, including palbociclib, have been developed for the treatment of various forms of cancer.

#### Related Papers

- Author: Li, Z. et al.
  - Title: Cyclin D2 is an FSH-responsive Gene Involved in Gonadal Soma to Germ Cell
  - Publication: Dev. Biol. 2007 Aug 1;308(1):254-67.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2007.05.006
  
- Author: Schneider, B. J. et al.
  - Title: Targeting Cyclin D2 in Myeloma with Selective CDK Inhibition
  - Publication: PLoS One. 2013;8(8):e73508.
  - DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0073508
  
- Author: Miyanaga, A. et al.
  - Title: Cyclin D2 gene polymorphism is associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer
  - Publication: Carcinogenesis. 2008 Oct;29(10):1890-4.
  - DOI: 10.1093/carcin/bgn161

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**