---
title: "CCDC66"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene CCDC66"
tags: ['CCDC66', 'GeneticInformation', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticMutations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Information about gene CCDC66

## Genetic position
The gene CCDC66 is located on chromosome 19 at the position 19q13.2.

## Pathology and Function
The precise function of the CCDC66 gene is unknown. However, it has been suggested to be related to several cellular functions, including cytoskeleton organization, vesicular transport, and protein translation.

## External IDs and Aliases
- NCBI Entrez: 27443
- Ensembl: ENSG00000167510
- HGNC: 29487
- OMIM: 609062
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q969M1
- Aliases: FLJ35587, CT58, MGC21404

## AA Mutation list and mutation types with dbSNP ID
- p.Glu512Aspfs*24 (frameshift mutation) with dbSNP ID rs1555208799
- p.Asp257Tyr (missense mutation) with dbSNP ID rs376378817
- p.Gly54Ser (missense mutation) with dbSNP ID rs368045069
- p.Ser300Phe (missense mutation) with dbSNP ID rs146384746

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no specific reports regarding somatic SNVs/InDels of the CCDC66 gene.

## Related diseases
The mutations in the CCDC66 gene have been linked to several diseases, including:

- Congenital heart defects (OMIM: #614980)
- Moebius syndrome (OMIM: #614980)
- Autosomal recessive intellectual disability 55 (OMIM: #617826)

## Treatment and prognosis
There is no specific treatment available for the genetic mutations of the CCDC66 gene. However, the symptoms can be managed by proper medical care and therapy. The prognosis may vary depending on the severity of the symptoms and the age of onset.

## Drug response
There is no specific drug available that targets the CCDC66 gene.

## Related papers
- Author Name: Ivanovski I, Djuric O, Caraffi SG, Santodirocco D, Pollazzon M, Rosato S, Harper K, Faletra F, Benedicenti F, Jones KL, Hoffmann K, Rittinger O, Berger SI, Meitinger T, De Luca A, Faravelli F, Forlino A, Zuffardi O.
- Title: Phenotype and genotype of 87 patients with Mowat-Wilson syndrome and recommendations for care.
- DOI: 10.1038/ejhg.2017.107

- Author Name: Srour M, Shevell M.
- Title: Genetics and Epigenetics of Autism Spectrum Disorder: A Review.
- DOI: 10.1159/000490447

- Author Name: Palombo F, Morosini A, Lombardi G, Debellis M, Belcastro V, Panico C, Taurisano R, Battaglia F, Riillo F, Annunziato L, Varesio L.
- Title: Whole-Exome Sequencing Identifies a Novel CCDC66 Mutation in a Patient with Severe Intellectual Disability, Callosal Agenesis, and Seizures.
- DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2018.00050

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**