---
title: "CEP78"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene CEP78"
tags: ['CEP78', 'SeckelSyndrome', 'Microcephaly', 'GrowthRetardation', 'CellDivision', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticDisorder']
---

## Information about gene CEP78

### Genetic Position
The gene CEP78 is located on the long arm of chromosome 2, specifically at the position 2q37.3.

### Pathology
The mutations in CEP78 have been identified to cause Seckel Syndrome type 8, which is a rare genetic disorder characterized by microcephaly and growth retardation.

### Function
The CEP78 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in the regulation of cell division.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: HGNC:28741
- NCBI Entrez: 54843
- Ensembl: ENSG00000144011
- OMIM: 616777
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96DY7
- Aliases: CCDC137, C2orf81, KIAA1410

### AA mutation list and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg354* (stop-gain) with dbSNP ID: rs587784485

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No record found.

### Related disease
The mutations in CEP78 cause Seckel Syndrome type 8, which is a rare genetic disorder characterized by microcephaly and growth retardation.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for Seckel Syndrome type 8. However, some treatments can be used to manage the symptoms. The prognosis for Seckel Syndrome type 8 varies depending on the severity of symptoms.

### Drug response
No record found.

### Related papers
- Subject: Mutations in CEP78 Cause Seckel Syndrome. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2015.02.014))
- Author: Shaheen et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2015.02.014

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**