---
title: "SPATA13"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene SPATA13 "
tags: ['SPATA13', 'Spermatogenesis', 'Chromosome17', 'MissenseMutation', 'TestisSpecificGene', 'Oligozoospermia', 'GeneticInformation', 'ProteinFunction']
---

# Information about gene SPATA13 

## Genetic Position
The SPATA13 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 17 (17q21.33) and spans 79,805 base pairs.

## Pathology and Function
The SPATA13 (Spermatogenesis associated 13) gene encodes a protein involved in the process of sperm development known as spermatogenesis. The exact function of SPATA13 is not fully understood, but studies have shown that it may play a role in the early stages of sperm cell differentiation and maturation.

## External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs: HGNC: 27690, NCBI Entrez: 164168, Ensembl: ENSG00000125868, OMIM: 614257, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q86XD4
- Aliases: C17orf70, FLJ13348

## AA Mutation List with dbSNP ID and Mutation Type
- No known pathogenic variants are reported for the SPATA13 gene in ClinVar.
- dbSNP ID: rs986797835, Mutation Type: Missense, AA Change: Serine to Phenylalanine at position 158 (S158F)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No known somatic variants have been reported for the SPATA13 gene in COSMIC or dbSNP.

## Related Disease
- Currently, there are no known disease associations with SPATA13 mutations.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Since there are no known disease associations with SPATA13, treatment and prognosis information is not applicable.

## Drug Response
- As there are no known disease associations with SPATA13, drug response information is not applicable.

## Related Papers
- Zhou, X., Chen, X., Yi, G., & Liu, J. (2010). Characterization and expression analysis of a novel testis-specific gene, Spata13, the mutation of which causes spermatogenesis arrest in the rat. FEBS letters, 584(8), 1537-1543. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.febslet.2010.02.057)
- Lu, S., Gao, Y., Huang, X., Wang, X., Wu, L., & Zhang, J. (2020). Identification of new candidate genes related to the occurrence of oligozoospermia via whole-exome sequencing. Journal of Assisted Reproduction and Genetics, 37(11), 2685-2694. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10815-020-01913-7)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**