---
title: "SNORD107"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information for Gene SNORD107"
tags: ['SNORD107', 'NonCodingRNA', 'Pseudouridylation', 'RibosomalRNA', 'SmallNucleolarRNA', 'PostTranscriptionalModification', 'RNAChemicalModification', 'C/DBox']
---

# Information for Gene SNORD107

## Genetic Position
SNORD107, also known as Small Nucleolar RNA, C/D Box 107, is located on chromosome 12q24.31.

## Pathology and Function
SNORD107 is a non-coding RNA gene that belongs to the C/D box class of small nucleolar RNAs. The gene produces small nucleolar RNAs that are involved in the chemical modification of other RNA molecules. Specifically, SNORD107 guides the pseudouridylation of ribosomal RNA. Pseudouridylation is a post-transcriptional modification that involves the isomerization of uridine to pseudouridine. It is important for maintaining the secondary structure and function of RNA molecules.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 34318 
- NCBI Entrez: 100131610 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000270031 
- OMIM: N/A 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: N/A 
- Aliases: SNORD107A, U107, RNU107

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
SNORD107 is not a protein-coding gene, therefore it does not have an amino acid (AA) sequence nor mutations associated with it.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
SNORD107 is not known to be associated with somatic SNVs/InDels.

## Related Disease
There are no known diseases directly associated with SNORD107.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Since SNORD107 is not associated with any known diseases, there are no treatments or prognoses associated with the gene.

## Drug Response
There are no known drug responses associated with SNORD107.

## Related Papers and Authors
- Author Name: Vitali P, Kiss T. 
  - Paper Title: Unique features of small RNA biogenesis in platypus point to functional differences from other mammals. 
  - Journal: BMC Genomics
  - DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-329
- Author Name: Falaleeva M, Pages A, Matuszek Z, Hidmi S, Agranat-Tamir L, Korotkov K, Nevo Y, Eyras E, Sperling R, Stamm S. 
  - Paper Title: Dual function of C/D box small nucleolar RNAs in rRNA modification and alternative pre-mRNA splicing. 
  - Journal: Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
  - DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1507753112

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**