---
title: "RRM2B"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene RRM2B Information"
tags: ['RRM2B', 'MitochondrialDepletionSyndrome', 'DNAReplication', 'RibonucleotideReductase', 'MissenseMutation', 'MDS11', 'LiverFailure', 'Encephalopathy']
---

# Gene RRM2B Information

## Gene Position
- **Gene:** RRM2B
- **Chromosome:** 8
- **Genomic Position:** 8q22.3
- **Strand:** Plus

## Pathology and Function
- **Function:** The RRM2B gene encodes ribonucleotide reductase regulatory subunit M2B, which is an essential enzyme for the synthesis of deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates (dNTPs) required for DNA replication and repair.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in the RRM2B gene have been associated with mitochondrial depletion syndrome (MDS), a disorder characterized by a severe reduction in the number of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) copies in affected tissues.
- **Aliases:** p53R2, hRRM2B

## External IDs and Links
- **HGNC:** HGNC:10498
- **NCBI Entrez:** 50484
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000065320
- **OMIM:** 604712
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q9Y6M7

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
|AA Position|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|:--------:|:-----------:|:------:|
| 70| Missense|rs1057518860|
| 83| Missense|rs201801543|
| 211| Missense|rs267606760|
| 225| Missense|rs766839421|
| 238| Missense|rs368170449|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Data not available.

## Related Disease
- **Mitochondrial Depletion Syndrome 11 (MDS11),** caused by a mutation in the RRM2B gene, is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by infantile-onset mitochondrial depletion resulting in liver failure, encephalopathy, tubulopathy, and sensorineural hearing loss.

## Treatment and prognosis
No cure is currently available for mitochondrial disorders such as MDS11. However, symptomatic treatments such as liver transplantation may improve the patient's quality of life and prolong survival.

## Drug Response
Data not available.

## Related Papers
- **Title:** Homozygous RRM2B mutation and mitochondrial disorder.
  - **Author(s):** Bourdon A, Minai L, Serre V, Jais JP, Sarzi E, Aubert S, Chrétien D, de Lonlay P, Paquis-Flucklinger V, Arakawa H, Nakamura Y, Munnich A, Rötig A.
  - **Journal:** N Engl J Med. 2007 Jul 12;357(2):132-9.
  - **DOI:** 10.1056/NEJMoa062662
- **Title:** Ribonucleotide reductase dysfunction in mitochondrial DNA depletion disorders.
  - **Author(s):** Bogenhagen DF, Rousseau D, Burke S.
  - **Journal:** Biochimie. 2014 May;100:146-52.
  - **DOI:** 10.1016/j.biochi.2013.09.008

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**