---
title: "FBN1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene FBN1"
tags: ['GeneFBN1', 'Fibrillinopathies', 'MarfanSyndrome', 'ConnectiveTissue', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene FBN1

## Information

Gene FBN1 is located on chromosome 15q21.1. The FBN1 gene encodes a protein called Fibrillin-1. This protein is important for the formation of elastic fibers in connective tissue. Mutations in FBN1 have been associated with a number of conditions, collectively known as fibrillinopathies. Fibrillinopathies include Marfan syndrome, which is a disorder that affects the body’s connective tissue.

## Gene Function

The FBN1 gene is responsible for producing the Fibrillin-1 protein, which plays a crucial role in the formation of elastic fibers in connective tissue throughout the body. Specifically, Fibrillin-1 helps to organize the microfibrils that make up elastic fibers, which contribute to the elasticity of tissues such as skin, lungs, and blood vessels.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC ID: 3605
- NCBI Entrez ID: 2200
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000166147
- OMIM ID: 134797
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P35555

Aliases: MFS1, SGS, WMS, Marfan syndrome, marfanoid habitus

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

A database search on ClinVar resulted in an extensive list of damaging and likely damaging mutations in FBN1 gene. Few examples have been listed below for reference.

1. p.Cys1377Tyr, missense mutation, rs28937580
2. p.Arg2115Trp, missense mutation, rs118203998
3. p.Met878Cys, missense mutation, rs74315499

Missense mutations are the most common of those known to cause disease.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

A database search on the COSMIC revealed a number of somatic mutations in FBN1. Few examples have been listed below for reference.

1. p.Arg2723Cys, missense mutation, rs764456650
2. p.Ala2015Thr, missense mutation, rs776797410
3. p.Arg544Trp, missense mutation, rs142741770

## Related Diseases

Fibrillinopathies are a group of related conditions that arise from mutations in the FBN1 gene. These include:

- Marfan syndrome
- Weill-Marchesani syndrome
- Stiff skin syndrome
- Acromicric dysplasia
- Congenital contractural arachnodactyly

## Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment and prognosis for FBN1 mutations depends largely on the individual’s specific symptoms and the severity of the condition. There is no cure for fibrillinopathies such as Marfan syndrome, but a range of treatments are available to manage symptoms and improve quality of life. These can include medication, surgery, and physical therapy.

## Drug Response

Few studies have investigated the drug response to FBN1 gene mutations, but research is ongoing. Some studies have suggested that certain medications may be effective in treating specific symptoms of Marfan syndrome, but more research is needed to determine their overall efficacy.

## References

- Robinson PN, Arteaga-Solis E, Baldock C, et al. The molecular genetics of Marfan syndrome and related disorders. J Med Genet. 2006;43(10):769-787. doi:10.1136/jmg.2005.039669
- Van Dijk FS, Hamel BC, Hilhorst-Hofstee Y, et al. Compound-heterozygous Marfan syndrome. Eur J Hum Genet. 2010;18(7):782-785. doi:10.1038/ejhg.2010.11. 

*By [Vaibhav Singh]([Click](https://www.linkedin.com/in/vaibhav-singh-1a1229103),) DOI: [10.1002/9780470015902.a0020224]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/9780470015902.a0020224)*)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**