---
title: "IL31RA"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: IL31RA "
tags: ['IL31RA', 'Interleukin31', 'InflammatoryResponse', 'AtopicDermatitis', 'Asthma', 'Cancer', 'AntiIL31RAAntibodies', 'GeneMutations']
---

## Gene: IL31RA 

### Genomic location: 
The IL31RA gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 5 at position 5q33.2.

### Function:
The IL31RA gene encodes a protein known as Interleukin-31 receptor subunit alpha(IL-31RA). The encoded protein binds to a cytokine called interleukin-31 and is involved in the mediation of inflammatory responses. It has been implicated in allergic diseases such as atopic dermatitis and asthma.

### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC ID: 16064
- NCBI Entrez: 133396
- Ensembl: ENSG00000113645
- OMIM: 609510
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NI17
- Aliases: GPL, GLM-R, IL31RA1 

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
Currently, there are 23 missense mutations in the IL31RA gene listed in dbSNP. Some examples are: 
- rs200746809: p.Gln55Arg
- rs1559591077: p.Lys186Asn
- rs148137820: p.Arg277Lys

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There are 2 somatic mutations reported in the IL31RA gene. Both are missense mutations and listed in dbSNP. The dbSNP IDs are: 
- rs1559591077: p.Lys186Asn
- rs757224020: p.Val194Ile

### Related Disease:
The IL31RA gene has been associated with various diseases such as atopic dermatitis, asthma, and psoriasis. It is also implicated in the progression of certain types of cancer such as cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and breast cancer.

### Treatment and prognosis:
There is currently no specific treatment targeting the IL31RA gene; however, anti-IL-31RA antibodies are being developed as a potential treatment for atopic dermatitis. The prognosis for IL31RA-related diseases varies depending on the specific disease and its severity.

### Drug response:
Anti-IL-31RA antibodies are being developed as a potential treatment for atopic dermatitis, indicating that targeting this gene may have therapeutic implications.

### Related papers:
- Subject: Role of IL-31RA Gene in Atopic Dermatitis
- Author: Nakamura, Moniaga, Tanei, Hide, Kabashima
- DOI: 10.1007/s13555-017-0186-1

- Subject: Association of IL-31RA gene polymorphisms with susceptibility to asthma
- Author: Jeong, Lee, Kim, Shin, Kwon
- DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.06.081

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**