---
title: "TPI1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene TPI1"
tags: ['TPI1', 'TriosephosphateIsomerase', 'Glycolysis', 'TPI1Deficiency', 'HemolyticAnemia', 'NeuromuscularDysfunction', 'IronChelationTherapy', 'RareDisease']
---

## Gene TPI1

### Information on Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

- **Function for gene:** The TPI1 gene encodes for the enzyme triosephosphate isomerase which is involved in glycolysis, a process that breaks down glucose to produce energy in the form of ATP.
- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
    - Gene ID: 7167
    - Genomic Location: Chromosome 12q13.12
    - Aliases: TIM, TPI
- **External sites:**
    - HGNC: 12116
    - NCBI Entrez: 7167
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000132031
    - OMIM: 190450
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P60174
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    - NM_001906.5(TPI1): c.289C>T (p.Leu97Phe) rs72549381
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - There is no information on somatic SNVs/InDels with rs ID for TPI1 gene.
- **Related disease:** TPI1 deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that affects glycolytic pathway causing problems with energy metabolism. It is characterized by chronic hemolytic anemia, neuromuscular dysfunction leading to progressive dystonia, and often early death.
- **Treatment and prognosis:** Management of TPI1 deficiency is supportive and entails blood transfusions to reduce hemolysis, iron chelation therapy to prevent complications of iron overload, and symptomatic relief of dystonia. Prognosis is poor as individuals with TPI1 deficiency have a median life span of five years.
- **Drug response:** There is no established drug therapy for TPI1 deficiency.
- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
    - Edvardson et al., "Triosephosphate isomerase deficiency is associated with early onset epileptic encephalopathy" Human Mutation. 2012 May;33(5):814-7. doi: [10.1002/humu.22038]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/humu.22038)
    - Fugate et al., "Triosephosphate isomerase deficiency: a case report and review of the literature" Metabolic Brain Disease. 2018 Dec;33(6):2003-2006. doi: [10.1007/s11011-018-0279-4]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11011-018-0279-4)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**