---
title: "ADAMTS18"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# **Gene: ADAMTS18**"
tags: ['ADAMTS18', 'TumorSuppressor', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'Angiogenesis', 'Peptidases']
---

# **Gene: ADAMTS18**

## Introduction
ADAMTS18 is a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) family of proteins. These proteins are enzymes that act as peptidases, which cleave protein substrates. ADAMTS18 is localized on human chromosome 16q23.1.

## Function
ADAMTS18 is involved in several biological mechanisms, including cartilage development and angiogenesis. It acts as a tumor suppressor in various cancers by inhibiting angiogenesis and cell proliferation.

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- **Gene ID:** 170689
- **Aliases:** ADAMTS20, UNQ617/PRO1230
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 16q23.1

## External Sites

- **HGNC:**  HGNC:23229
- **NCBI Entrez:** Gene ID: 170689 
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000102974
- **OMIM:** 616150
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q8N6J3

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There is a list of amino acid (AA) mutations and their mutation type found in the ADAMTS18 gene in dbSNP database:
- **S89F (rs1235197914):** Missense 
- **S197N (rs1509606853):** Missense
- **S942L (rs768174314):** Missense
- **R1195K (rs369969968):** Missense
- **S1203C (rs540834511):** Missense
- **S1666L (rs146808274):** Missense

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels and their dbSNP IDs found in the ADAMTS18 gene:
- **rs7762939:** G > C, Intron variant
- **rs72730855:** C > G, Intron variant
- **rs74630204:** C > G, Intron variant
- **rs7789893:** T > C, Intron variant

## Related Disease 
ADAMTS18 has been linked to various types of cancer such as hepatocellular carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, gastric cancer and breast cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment for lowering or raising ADAMTS18 enzyme levels, and the prognosis is mainly determined by the type and stage of cancer patients have.

## Drug Response 
No drug is currently approved specifically targeting ADAMTS18.

## Related papers and DOI links: 
- **Author Name(s):** Huang L, Wang X, Wen C, et al.
- **Title:** ADAMTS18: A Critical Molecule in Tumorigenesis([Click](https://doi.org/10.1155/2019/8686020))
- **Author Name(s):** Liu D, Liu X, Xing X, et al.
- **Title:** Genetic variants and mutations of ADAMTS18 gene are associated with the development and progression of breast cancer. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-71000-y))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**