---
title: "MYO5B"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information About Gene MYO5B"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'MYO5B', 'GeneFunction', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'MutationTypes', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information About Gene MYO5B

### Genetic Position
- **Gene:** MYO5B
- **Chromosome:** 18
- **Genomic Location:** 18q21.1
- **Aliases:**   
  - MYH12B
  - MYR5
  - dilute myosin
  - myosin Vb

### Pathology
MYO5B is associated with several diseases and conditions, chiefly in Gastrointestinal, Liver and Renal systems. Certain mutations of this gene can lead to a number of diseases or syndromes, such as 

- microvillus inclusion disease, 
- intrahepatic cholestasis, 
- cholestasis, 
- renal tubular acidosis,  
- Myhre syndrome
- Bardet-Biedl syndrome 

### Function
MYO5B provides instructions for the formation of a protein called "Myosin Vb". This protein plays a vital role in functions related to trafficking of organelles in the cells. 

### External IDs and Sites 
- **HGNC ID:** 7592
- **NCBI Entrez Gene ID:** 4646
- **Ensemble ID:** ENSG00000067057
- **OMIM ID:** 606540
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** Q9UFY6

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.2507C>T (p.Arg836Ter) rs267607155
- c.2018+1G>A rs869320959
- c.2878C>T (p.Arg960Ter) rs267607156
- c.361_363delTTC (p.Phe121del) rs1057518906

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs576433089 (C>T)
- rs369049420 (C>T)
- rs773599367 (T>C)

### Related Disease
MYO5B mutations have been observed and linked to different diseases and conditions such as: 
- Cholestasis
- Microvillus Inclusion Disease (MVID)
- Striatal degeneration, autosomal dominant 3 (OMIM)
- Intrahepatic Cholestasis
- Renal Tubular Acidosis
- Bardet-Biedl Syndrome
- Myhre Syndrome

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no curative therapy available for MYO5B associated diseases, and therapy is mainly symptomatic. However, research is ongoing to develop treatments and therapies that would address the underlying genetic disorder. The prognosis for individuals with MYO5B mutations varies depending on the condition.

### Drug Response
Currently there is no specific drug or therapy for MYO5B associated syndromes and diseases. However, several compounds such as Lithocholic acid, Rifampin, N-acetylcysteine (NAC), Phenobarbital have been tested as a treatment option for Individuals with MYO5B mutations.

### Related Papers
- **Subject:** Role of MYO5B mutations in Microvillus Inclusion Disease(MVID) and Intrahepatic Cholestasis(IHC)
  - **Author:** Thoeni, C. E., Vogel, G. F., Tancevski, I., Geley, S., Lechner, S., Pabst, W. L., & Janecke, A. R.
  - **DOI:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejmg.2015.06.008)
  
- **Subject:** Involvement of MYO5B mutations in Bardet-Biedl Syndrome
  - **Author:** Topçu, V., & Ozkinay, F.
  - **DOI:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/bdrc.21556)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**