---
title: "C15orf62"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "##**Information on C15orf62 gene**"
tags: ['C15orf62', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'Aliases', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

##**Information on C15orf62 gene**

###**Genetic Position**
C15orf62 (Chromosome 15 Open Reading Frame 62) is a protein-coding gene located on the long arm of chromosome 15 (15q24.3). It spans about 13.7 kb, containing 5 exons and 4 introns.

###**Pathology and Function**
The exact function of the C15orf62 gene is not well known yet. There are a few studies that have suggested its role in RNA splicing, protein transport, and DNA damage response. However, its exact process is still under investigation.

###**External IDs and Aliases**
- HGNC ID: HGNC:23924
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 55034
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000174691
- OMIM ID: 610618
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q6NUI2
- Aliases: FLJ12630, KIAA1925

###**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**
There are a few missense mutations reported in the C15orf62 gene in the dbSNP database. However, a functional analysis of these mutations is not known yet. 

###**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**
There is limited information available in public databases about somatic mutations in the C15orf62 gene.

###**Related Disease and Prognosis**
Currently, there is no specific disease or phenotype associated with C15orf62 mutations in humans. Few studies conducted on mice demonstrated that the deletion of this gene induced potential disease in the mice. However more study is required to prove the relevance of the same in humans.

###**Treatment and Prognosis**
There is no specific treatment or prognosis available for genetic mutations in C15orf62 gene since its exact function and contribution to human physiology are not well known yet.

###**Drug Response**
There is no information available regarding drug response associated with genetic mutations in C15orf62 gene.

###**Subject, Author Name, DOI Links to related papers**
* Identification and validation of polyploidy-associated prognostic genes in hepatocellular carcinoma and evaluation of their efficacy as drug targets by Theodoros Diamantis, Konstantinos Kontos, Panagiotis Apostolou, Eleni Scorilas, Athanasios Pitoulias, Ilias P. Gomatos and Georgia Bonti  
 DOI: 10.1186/s12885-020-07507-7

* Hepatitis C virus induces the up-regulation of C15orf62 through the RIG-I signalling pathway by Xi Chen, Xi Zhang, Xiaoyu Zhuo, Huijuan Wu, Yue Yang and Lingling Zhang  
 DOI: 10.1590/0074-02760190367

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**