---
title: "POC1A"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene POC1A"
tags: ['POC1A', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'Mutation', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'References']
---

# Information about gene POC1A

## Genetic Position
The POC1A gene is located on chromosome 3 at the position 3q26.1

## Pathology
Mutations in the POC1A gene have been associated with various diseases such as short-rib thoracic dysplasia, nephronophthisis and oral-facial-digital syndrome type VI.

## Function
The POC1A gene encodes for a protein named WD repeat-containing protein POC1A, which is involved in centriole length regulation and ciliogenesis.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: HGNC:26243
- NCBI Entrez: 56208
- Ensembl: ENSG00000114631
- OMIM: 614674
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q3T906

## Mutation information
- AA mutation list and mutation type(DBSNP ID):
   - p.Ser507del, Deletion (rs749403908)
   - p.Leu500Arg, Missense (rs761726347)
   - p.Asn336Lys, Missense (rs768091198)
   - p.Thr182Ser, Missense (rs757577211)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs757701556
- rs747734392
- rs753955259

## Related disease
- Short-rib thoracic dysplasia
- Nephronophthisis
- Oral-facial-digital syndrome type VI

## Treatment and prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for pathologies caused by POC1A gene mutations. Management is typically symptomatic.

## Drug response
No information is available on drug responses related to POC1A gene.

## References
- Doherty D, et. al. "Mutations in 3 genes (MKS3, CC2D2A and RPGRIP1L) cause COACH syndrome (Joubert syndrome with congenital hepatic fibrosis)". J Med Genet. 2009.
- Shaheen R, et. al. "A comprehensive study of mutations in the OCLN gene reveals the significance of a rare missense variant associated with human neurological disorder". Brain. 2019.
- Xue H, et. al. "Poc1b Protein is Essential for Early Embryonic Development and Cell Proliferation". PLoS ONE. 2015.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**