---
title: "KIR2DL1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['KIR2DL1', 'NKcells', 'Cancer', 'Immunotherapy', 'GeneticVariation', 'DiseaseProgression', 'DrugTarget', 'ClinicalOutcomes']
---

## Gene Information
- **Gene Name:** KIR2DL1
- **Function for gene:** Plays a role in natural killer (NK) cell-mediated cytotoxicity and inhibition of NK cell activation.
- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 6342
    - NCBI Entrez Gene: 3802
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000204644
    - OMIM: 602992
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P43628
    - Genomic location: Chromosome 19q13.4
    - Aliases: CD158A, KIR-023GB, KIR2DL1B, KIR244, KLRC1, NKB1, NKAT, NKAT1
    

## Mutation Information
### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- There are several amino acid variations in KIR2DL1
- Notably, a polymorphism in KIR2DL1 results in its expression at low or high levels on NK cells. 
- dbSNP ID: rs1058409

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There is a somatic variant in KIR2DL1, as per COSMIC database. 
- dbSNP ID: rs1556225129 

## Related Disease
KIR2DL1 is associated with various clinical outcomes, such as:
- Autoimmune Diseases
- Infectious Diseases
- Reproductive Disorders
- Cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Studies have shown that KIR2DL1 has an effect on disease progression and prognosis for several cancers including ovarian, colorectal, lung, and breast cancer.
- There is ongoing research regarding the potential of KIR2DL1 as an immunotherapeutic target for cancer treatment.

## Drug Response
- KIR2DL1 can potentially be targeted by immunotherapeutic drugs, such as checkpoint inhibitors and monoclonal antibodies.

## Related Papers
- Guo W, et al. “Clinical significance of KIR2DL1 in tumors.” The American Journal of Cancer Research. (2018). [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6173669/)
- Schleinitz N, et al. “Natural desensitization of in vitro and in vivo NK-cell responses to specific HLA-alleles in nonviremic individuals.” Blood Advances. (2018). [Click](https://ashpublications.org/bloodadvances/article/2/22/3096/17005/Natural-desensitization-of-in-vitro-and-in-vivo)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**