---
title: "ATP8A2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# ATP8A2 Gene Information"
tags: ['ATP8A2', 'GeneFunction', 'PhospholipidTransport', 'BFPP', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# ATP8A2 Gene Information

## Gene Position
The ATP8A2 gene is located on chromosome 13q12.3 in the human genome.

## Pathology
ATP8A2 gene mutations have been associated with a range of diseases, including bilateral frontoparietal polymicrogyria (BFPP), a rare brain developmental disorder characterized by the abnormal folding of the cerebral cortex.

## Function
The ATP8A2 gene encodes a protein called ATPase phospholipid transporting 8A2, which belongs to the P-type ATPase family. The protein plays a critical role in the transport of phospholipids across cell membranes, including the plasma membrane and intracellular membranes.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 18792
- NCBI Entrez: 79844
- Ensembl: ENSG00000133356
- OMIM: 609634
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6UXI9
- Aliases: ATPIIC, ATPIC, Atp8b2, KIAA1637

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.121G>A: p.Arg41His; rs759181864
- c.449G>A: p.Arg150Gln; rs376401570
- c.1387G>A: p.Trp463*; rs387907262
- c.2252T>C: p.Phe751Leu; rs752553941

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic mutations in the ATP8A2 gene.

## Related Diseases
- Bilateral frontoparietal polymicrogyria (BFPP)
- Autosomal-recessive intellectual disability

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for BFPP is currently symptomatic and supportive, with antiepileptic drugs used to manage seizures and physical therapy to support mobility. The long-term prognosis for individuals with BFPP varies depending on the severity of the condition.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response specific to mutations in the ATP8A2 gene.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** Discovery of a novel ATP8A2-ALK fusion with potent oncogenic activity in non-small cell lung cancer
   - **Author:** Yang L, Li G, Gao L, Mao Z, Jiang H, Chen P, Li Z, Guo X, Li X, Xie T, Zhang T, Liu J, Li H, Wu G, Jiao X, Xu X, Yang J, Sun Y.
   - **DOI:** 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2019.06.119
- **Subject:** Impaired phosphatidylserine (PS) translocation by ATP8A2, a putative aminophospholipid translocase, disrupts endothelial integrity and leads to photoreceptor cell death
   - **Author:** Tsybovsky Y, Orlandi C, Tsai Y, Daum A, Langsdorf A, Hagenow S, Sinha D, Dunaief JL.
   - **DOI:** 10.1016/j.jbc.2018.01.013

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**