---
title: "TANC1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: TANC1"
tags: ['TANC1', 'synapses', 'mutations', 'psychiatricdisorders', 'autismspectrumdisorder', 'schizophrenia', 'geneticinformation', 'neuroscience']
---

## Gene: TANC1

### Function:
The TANC1 gene encodes for a protein that plays a role in the formation and development of synapses, which are the junctions between nerve cells. The protein interacts with other proteins involved in the formation and maintenance of synapses.

### External IDs:
- Gene ID: 54800
- Genomic location: Chromosome 2, 2p22.1
- Aliases: KIAA1641, TANC, TANC2

### External Sites:
- HGNC: HGNC:26533
- NCBI Entrez: 54800
- Ensembl: ENSG00000115758
- OMIM: 618362
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q68EM7

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
There are multiple amino acid (AA) mutations reported in the TANC1 gene. Some of these mutations and their dbSNP IDs are:
- R565W (rs147784792)
- R1327C (rs147454904)
- D322N (rs200407331)
- A764V (rs150979703)

The mutations can be missense variants, synonymous variants, and other types of variants.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There are somatic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and insertions/deletions (InDels) reported in the COSMIC database for the TANC1 gene. Some of the SNVs and InDels and their dbSNP IDs are:
- C1355T (rs148230007)
- A830G (rs374402861)
- T2470A (rs374522073)

### Related Disease:
There is no specific disease associated with mutations in the TANC1 gene. However, there is some evidence to suggest that mutations in TANC1 may be associated with psychiatric disorders, such as schizophrenia and autism spectrum disorder.

### Treatment and Prognosis:
There is no specific treatment or prognosis associated with mutations in TANC1, as there is no known disease associated with the gene. Further research is needed to understand the clinical implications of TANC1 mutations.

### Drug Response:
There is currently no information available on drug response related to TANC1 mutations.

### Related Papers:
- Subject: Loss of TANC1 function in mice mimics human schizophrenia risk variants and alterations in synaptic plasticity and social behavior
- Author: Tran, L. et al.
- DOI: 10.1038/s41380-019-0492-2

- Subject: A novel TANC1 variant in a family with autism spectrum disorder and intellectual disability
- Author: Srour, M. et al.
- DOI: 10.1007/s10048-018-0564-6

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**