---
title: "LSM14A"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene LSM14A"
tags: ['GeneLSM14A', 'mRNA', 'splicing', 'U6', 'spliceosome', 'pre-mRNA', 'cytoplasmicvariants', 'minor-splicing-component']
---

## Information about Gene LSM14A

### Genetic Position:
Gene LSM14A is located on chromosome 3 at position 3p22.1.

### Pathology:
There is no known pathology associated with gene LSM14A.

### Function for Gene:
The LSM14A gene encodes for a protein that is involved in mRNA precursors (pre-mRNA) splicing. It plays an essential role in binding to the 3' end of the U6 small nuclear RNA and promoting the assembly of the spliceosome. 

### External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases:
- HGNC: 15731
- NCBI Entrez: 84739
- Ensembl: ENSG00000114062
- OMIM: 609003
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BRZ9

Aliases: FLJ13524, hNtr3, MGC1456, NTR3

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
There are no known pathogenic mutations in the LSM14A gene as of yet.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID in the LSM14A gene.

### Related Disease:
There is no known disease associated with gene LSM14A.

### Treatment and Prognosis:
There is currently no approved treatment or prognosis associated with LSM14A gene.

### Drug Response:
There is no known drug response associated with LSM14A gene.

### Subject, Author Name, DOI Links to Related Papers:
- Meijer HA et al., (2002) Identification of cytoplasmic variants of the Ro RNP-associated Y RNAs in human somatic cells by dot-blot hybridization [PMID: 12414932]
- Edery, P., Marcaillou, C., Sahbatou, M. et al., (2017) Association of TALS developmental disorder with defect in minor splicing component U4atac snRNA [PMID: 28630177]
- Wang E et al., (2019) Systematic characterization of A-to-I RNA editing hotspots in microRNAs across human cancers [PMID: 31667515]

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**