---
title: "ATP5SL"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene ATP5SL"
tags: ['ATP5SL', 'MitochondrialATPSynthase', 'GeneFunction', 'AAmutations', 'GeneticPosition', 'RelatedPapers', 'Aliases', 'UniProtKB']
---

# Information about gene ATP5SL

## Genetic Position
ATP5SL is located on chromosome 21q22.3.

## Pathology
There is no known pathological link associated with ATP5SL.

## Function
ATP5SL (ATP Synthase Subunit L) is a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. It has been shown to be essential for the assembly of the ATP synthase complex, which is responsible for generating ATP in the mitochondria.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 21559
- NCBI Entrez: 94170
- Ensembl: ENSG00000160262
- OMIM: 610962
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y698

Aliases:
- ATP5L2
- ATPSL

## AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are several AA mutations associated with ATP5SL, including:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|------------|--------|
|Gly29Asp|Missense|rs669858315|
|Asn114Lys|Missense|rs748832739|
|Ile142Val|Missense|rs764527556|
|Arg153Cys|Missense|rs119481037|
|Lys189Glu|Missense|rs766441077|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic SNVs or InDels associated with ATP5SL.

## Related Disease
Currently, there are no diseases directly associated with ATP5SL mutations.

## Treatment and Prognosis
As there are no known pathological links with ATP5SL, there is no known treatment or prognosis.

## Drug Response
As of now, there is no data on drug response related to ATP5SL.

## Related Papers
- Subject: The Assembly pathway of mitochondrial ATP synthase subunit L in human cells
  - Author: Sánchez-Cenizo L, Sánchez-Aragó M, Formentini L, Martínez-Reyes I, García-Bermúdez J, Santacatterina F, Sánchez-Madrid F, Cuezva JM
  - DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1112832109
- Subject: Mitochondrial ATP synthase deficiency due to a mutation in the ATP5A1 gene for the alpha-subunit.
  - Author: Kucharczyk R, Rak M, di Rago JP, Tetaud E, Bietiger W, Lombès A
  - DOI: 10.1074/jbc.m510418200

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**