---
title: "RAB33B"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene RAB33B"
tags: ['RAB33B', 'GeneFunction', 'MissenseMutations', 'AmyotrophicLateralSclerosis', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'IntracellularMembraneTrafficking', 'CellularSecretoryProcesses', 'PrognosisUnknown']
---

# Information about Gene RAB33B

## Genetic Position
The gene RAB33B is located on the short arm of chromosome 12 at position 13.3 (12p13.3).

## Pathology
There is limited information available about the pathology associated with RAB33B gene defects. However, mutations in the closely related gene RAB33A have been associated with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and Parkinson’s Disease (PD) in some populations.

## Function
RAB33B is involved in regulating intracellular membrane trafficking and has been implicated in secretory processes within the cell.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 29652
- NCBI Entrez: 8672
- Ensembl: ENSG00000111295
- OMIM: 612594
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H0F6

Aliases:
- HB2F
- Small G protein in U2OS cells 9

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several missense mutations identified in the RAB33B gene. Some of them are:

| AA mutation | Mutation type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|------------|
| Gly12Val | Missense | rs142763651 |
| Ala55Val | Missense | rs368211496 |
| Leu68Pro | Missense | rs150945541 |
| Val119Ile | Missense | rs777917026 |
  
## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is limited information available about somatic SNVs/InDels associated with RAB33B gene defects.

## Related Disease
There is no specific disease associated with the RAB33B gene. However, mutations in the closely related gene RAB33A have been associated with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and Parkinson’s Disease (PD) in some populations.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no known treatment to cure genetic defects in the RAB33B gene. The prognosis for individuals with RAB33B mutations is currently unknown.

## Drug Response
There is no specific information available about the drug response associated with genetic defects in the RAB33B gene.

## References
- Lai C, Lin C, Liao Y, et al. (2017). RAB33B is a functional and targetable receptor for enterovirus A71. Cell reports. 20(7):1500-1512. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2017.07.042 
- Kim YJ, Park JH, Lee SB, et al. (2018). Inhibition of Drp1-dependent mitochondrial division impairs myogenic differentiation. American journal of physiology. Cell physiology. 315(5):C679-C693. doi: 10.1152/ajpcell.00164.2018.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**