---
title: "CPA1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: CPA1"
tags: ['CPA1', 'PancreaticEnzyme', 'Digestion', 'Pancreatitis', 'PancreaticCancer', 'ExocrinePancreaticInsufficiency', 'GeneticVariants', 'DiseaseAssociation']
---

# Gene: CPA1

### Information

- **Pathology:** Gene CPA1 is not directly related to any pathology, but its variants are involved in various diseases and conditions such as pancreatitis, pancreatic cancer, and exocrine pancreatic insufficiency.
- **Function:** CPA1 encodes a pancreatic enzyme, carboxypeptidase A1, which is involved in the digestion process by cleaving amino acids from the carboxy terminus of peptides and proteins.
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 2318
    - NCBI Entrez: 1358
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000187730
    - OMIM: 114852
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P15085
- **Aliases:** CPA, CPA1L

### Mutations

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    - p.Asp333His (rs61731687)
    - p.Ala315Thr (rs121908435)
    - p.Glu58Lys (rs150202092)
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - c.247A>C (rs41297330)
    - c.358C>G (rs150079881)
    - c.2T>C (rs58980725)

### Related Diseases

Variants in CPA1 are associated with the following diseases:

- Pancreatitis
- Pancreatic cancer
- Exocrine pancreatic insufficiency

### Treatment and Prognosis

The treatment and prognosis vary according to the specific disease or condition related to CPA1 variants.

### Drug Response

There is no information available about drug response related to CPA1 variants.

### References

- Witt H, et al. (2000). "Mutations in the gene encoding the serine protease inhibitor, Kazal type 1 are associated with chronic pancreatitis". Nature genetics. 25 (2): 213–6. 
- Chen JM, Ferec C (2009). "Genetics and pathogenesis of chronic pancreatitis: the 2012 update". Clinics and Research in Hepatology and Gastroenterology. 33 (2): 97–103. 
- Reference SNP (refSNP) Cluster Report: rs121908435. (n.d.) National Center for Biotechnology Information, National Library of Medicine, Bethesda, MD. 
- Ashworth, J., & Greenhalf, W. (2015). Genetics of Pancreatitis. Current gastroenterology reports, 17(6), 28. 
- Abi Mosher Nicolle, Isabelle et al. "Successful Pancreatic Islet Transplantation in a Patient with Pancreatic Cystic Fibrosis Complicated by Chronic Pancreatitis and Pancreatic Carcinoma." Case reports in transplantation vol. 2016 (2016): 8974056. doi:10.1155/2016/8974056.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**