---
title: "ITGA2B"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: ITGA2B "
tags: ['ITGA2B', 'PlateletAggregation', 'GlanzmannThrombasthenia', 'BleedingDisorder', 'DrugResponse', 'Mutation', 'GeneticDisorder', 'Hemostasis']
---

## Gene: ITGA2B 

### Pathology and Function

ITGA2B, also known as integrin alpha-IIb, is a gene that codes for a protein that is found on the surface of platelets, the small blood cells responsible for clot formation. ITGA2B is involved in the process of platelet aggregation, which is essential for proper hemostasis and wound healing. Mutations in ITGA2B can lead to inherited platelet disorders, such as Glanzmann's thrombasthenia, which is characterized by defective platelet aggregation.

### External IDs and Genomic Location

* HGNC ID: 6142
* NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 3674
* Ensembl ID: ENSG00000159216
* OMIM ID: 607759
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P08514
* Genomic Location: Chromosome 17:45,852,751-45,882,193

### AA Mutation List and dbSNP ID

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|:---------:|:----------:|:------:|
|Arg54Cys|Missense|rs11544823|
|Gly709Asp|Missense|rs267607029|
|Arg995Cys|Missense|rs267607030|
|Val1208Ile|Missense|rs34282659|
|Asp1195Tyr|Missense|rs201157402|
|Pro159Leu|Missense|rs267607031|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

|SNV/InDel|dbSNP ID|
|:-------:|:------:|
|p.R854G|rs587776892|
|p.V379A|rs201249019|
|p.D254E|rs786205153|
|c.2012-2A>G|rs587776891|

### Related Disease

Defects in ITGA2B are the cause of Glanzmann thrombasthenia (GT), an autosomal recessive bleeding disorder. GT is characterized by the inability of platelets to aggregate and by prolonged bleeding time that can cause significant morbidity and mortality.

### Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment for GT is usually supportive and includes platelet transfusions and/or recombinant activated factor VII. In severe cases, bone marrow transplantation or gene therapy may be considered. The prognosis for GT is variable and depends on the severity of symptoms and the response to treatment.

### Drug Response

ITGA2B plays a critical role in platelet aggregation, and drugs that inhibit ITGA2B, such as abciximab and eptifibatide, are used clinically to prevent thrombotic events.

### References 

1. Nurden AT, Nurden P (2008). "Inherited disorders of platelet function: selected updates." *J. Thromb. Haemost.* 6 (10): 1732–5. 
2. George JN (2019). "Platelet disorders", in Kasper D, Fauci A, Hauser S, Longo D, Jameson J, Loscalzo J (eds.): *Harrison's Hematology and Oncology, 4th Edition*. McGraw-Hill Education, New York, NY.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**