---
title: "PRKCA"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene PRKCA"
tags: ['PRKCA', 'ProteinKinaseCAlpha', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'Inhibitors', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'CellularSignaling', 'PoorPrognosis']
---

# Information about gene PRKCA

## Genetic Position
PRKCA (Protein Kinase C Alpha) is located on the chromosome 17q24.2.

## Pathology and Function
PRKCA gene is involved in various cellular processes such as cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, and several signaling pathways. PRKCA gene is associated with various diseases, especially cancer. The overexpression of PRKCA has been observed in many solid tumors and has been associated with a poor prognosis.

## Gene Information
- *Function:* Protein Kinase C Alpha (PRKCA) is a protein-coding gene that acts as a receptor for phorbol esters and diacylglycerol, which play a crucial role in cellular signaling pathways.
- *External IDs:* HGNC: 9396, NCBI Entrez: 5578, Ensembl: ENSG00000171094, OMIM: 176960, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P17252
- *Aliases:* PKCA, PRKACA, PKC-alpha

## AA Mutation list with mutation type and dbSNP ID
- p.R638W (missense mutation): rs121913497
- p.L12F (missense mutation): rs41277547
- p.R397H (missense mutation): rs794726092
- p.A25T (missense mutation): rs143533098
- p.D463G (missense mutation): rs376023275

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.742C>T (silent): rs9699167
- c.299G>A (missense mutation): rs796334098
- c.1669A>G (missense mutation): rs1057519566
- c.679_681delTTC (in-frame deletion): rs796083920
- c.1558_1559delGT (in-frame deletion): rs764045944

## Related disease
- Cancer (PRKCA is overexpressed in many solid tumors like breast, lung, colorectal, and pancreatic).

## Treatment and prognosis
- Targeting PRKCA using specific inhibitors is a promising approach for cancer therapy.
- The prognosis of cancer patients overexpressing PRKCA is generally poor.

## Drug response
- Inhibitors like Sotrastaurin, Rufinamide, and GSK2334470 have shown promising results in cancer treatment.

## Related papers
- Allan, L. A., Friedensburg, E., & Crabb, S. J. (2021). Protein Kinase C Alpha as a therapeutic target in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. World Journal of Gastroenterology, 27(11), 1025–1046. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3748/wjg.v27.i11.1025)
- Newton, A. C., Brognard, J., & Reversade, B. (2017). The PKC alpha–LKB1–AMPK pathway: A novel tumor suppressor signaling axis implicated in the development of colon and lung carcinomas. Current Opinion in Cell Biology, 45, 55–62. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ceb.2017.03.012)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**