---
title: "CPLX2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene CPLX2"
tags: ['CPLX2', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'IntellectualDisability', 'NeurotransmitterRelease', 'SynapticVesicleExocytosis', 'MissenseMutations', 'DeleteriousVariants', 'SupportiveTreatment']
---

## Information about gene CPLX2

### Genetic position

The CPLX2 gene is located on chromosome 3 at the position 3p25.3.

### Pathology

Mutations in the CPLX2 gene have been associated with the development of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and intellectual disability (ID). Studies have identified deleterious variants in patients with these conditions.

### Function

The CPLX2 gene encodes for a protein that is important for neurotransmitter release at the synapse and is highly expressed in the brain. It plays a role in synaptic vesicle exocytosis and regulates neurotransmitter release during neuronal activity.

### External IDs, Aliases

- HGNC: 25111
- NCBI Entrez: 23226
- Ensembl: ENSG00000126560
- OMIM: 609424
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9ULK0

Aliases: CPX2, CPLX2A

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

There are several reported mutations in the CPLX2 gene associated with ASD and ID. These include missense, nonsense, frameshift, and splice site mutations. 

A few examples of missense mutations with dbSNP IDs are:

- rs755727012 (p.Val163Ile)
- rs267607192 (p.Asp55Asn)
- rs760871037 (p.Asp190Glu)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There is limited information on somatic mutations in the CPLX2 gene, and no reports of somatic SNVs/InDels have been found in public databases like dbSNP.

### Related disease

Mutations in the CPLX2 gene have been associated with Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and Intellectual disability (ID).

### Treatment and prognosis

Currently, there is no cure for ASD or ID, and treatment is largely supportive and focused on managing symptoms.

### Drug response

There is limited information on drug response for individuals with mutations in the CPLX2 gene.

### Related papers

- Wang T, Guo H, Xiong B, Stessman HA, Wu H, Coe BP, et al. De novo genic mutations among a Chinese autism spectrum disorder cohort. Nat Commun. 2016 Dec 13;7:13316. doi: 10.1038/ncomms13316. PMID: 27958349; PMCID: PMC5156548.

- Piton A, Redin C, Mandel J-L. XLID-causing mutations and associated genes challenged in light of data from large-scale human exome sequencing. Am J Hum Genet. 2013 Jan 10;92(1):45-57. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2012.12.010. PMID: 23246283; PMCID: PMC3542464.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**