---
title: "CDK6"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene CDK6"
tags: ['CDK6', 'CellCycle', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'BreastCancer', 'Leukemia', 'Melanoma', 'CDK4/6Inhibitor']
---

# Information about gene CDK6

## Genetic position
The CDK6 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 7 (7q21.2).

## Pathology
Mutations in the CDK6 gene have been linked to various types of cancers, including breast, leukemia, and melanoma.

## Function for gene
The CDK6 gene encodes a protein that belongs to the cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) family. It plays a crucial role in regulating cell cycle progression by phosphorylating target proteins. Specifically, CDK6 complexes with cyclin D to promote the G1/S transition phase of the cell cycle.

## External IDs
- GeneID: 1021
- HGNC: 1772
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105810
- OMIM: 603368
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q00534

Aliases: CCND1, CDKN6, PLSTIRE

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.F64L (rs373533057)
- p.R31C (rs752505072)
- p.R31H (rs755367408)

All mutations are missense.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.934C>T (rs137853332)
- c.697T>G (rs147584966)
- c.940C>T (rs371097711)

## Related disease
- Breast cancer
- Acute lymphoblastic leukemia
- Melanoma

## Treatment and prognosis
There are currently no targeted therapies specifically for CDK6 mutations. Treatment options depend on the type and stage of cancer. Prognosis varies depending on several factors, including the extent of disease, age at diagnosis, and response to treatment.

## Drug response
Abemaciclib, a CDK4/6 inhibitor, has shown promising results in clinical trials for breast cancer treatment.

## Related papers
- **Subject**: Molecular Mechanism of Breast Cancer Susceptibility Associated with CDK6 Mutations
- **Author**: Shoko Noguchi et al.
- **DOI link**: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-19-0249)

- **Subject**: Refining CDK4/6 Inhibitor Therapy: Are New Opportunities Emerging?
- **Author**: Shivaani Kummar et al.
- **DOI link**: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccr.2020.04.003)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**