---
title: "CHRDL1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['CHRDL1', 'BMPantagonist', 'Holoprosencephaly', 'MissenseMutations', 'SomaticMutations', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene Information

### Gene Name and ID

Gene Name: CHRDL1

Gene ID: 8646

### Genomic Location

Chr.3: 79,554,682-79,613,621

### Aliases

FETUA, CHL1, CRL1

### Function

CHRDL1 encodes a protein called Chordin-like protein 1, which functions as a bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) antagonist. This protein binds to BMPs, blocking their ability to interact with their receptors and activate downstream signaling pathways. 

## External IDs

### HGNC

HGNC: 1952

### NCBI Entrez

NCBI Entrez: 8646

### Ensembl

Ensembl: ENSG00000114416

### OMIM

OMIM: 604885

### UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot

UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NPH9

## Mutations

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

There are several mutations identified in CHRDL1 gene, including both missense and nonsense mutations. Some of the missense mutations identified in CHRDL1 are:

- p.(Arg94Cys)
- p.(Ser12Leu)
- p.(Phe29Leu)
- p.(Arg267Cys)

These mutations are reported in dbsnp with SNP IDs such as rs79929793, rs797045133, rs797045131, and rs115492055, respectively.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are limited somatic mutations identified in CHRDL1.

## Diseases

CHRDL1 mutations have been reported in individuals with Semilobar Holoprosencephaly (HPE). 

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no known cure for HPE caused by CHRDL1 mutations. Treatment varies depending on the symptoms in each individual. Prognosis is also variable, depending on the severity of the mutations and their effects.

## Drug Response

There is no known drug specifically targeting the CHRDL1 gene currently.

## Related Papers

- Author: Muenke M
  - The molecular genetics of holoprosencephaly. Am J Med Genet C Semin Med Genet. 2010 Nov 15;154C(4):52-61.
  - DOI: [10.1002/ajmg.c.30266]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/ajmg.c.30266)

- Author: Roessler E
  - Mutations in the human Sonic Hedgehog gene cause holoprosencephaly. Nat Genet. 1996 Nov;14(3):357-60.
  - DOI: [10.1038/ng1196-357]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng1196-357)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**