---
title: "NRL"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene NRL"
tags: ['NRLgene', 'RetinitisPigmentosa', 'ConeRodDystrophy', 'EnhancedSconeSyndrome', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'OcularDiseases', 'MutationTypes', 'SupportiveTherapies']
---

# Gene NRL

## Genetic Position
NRL gene is located on chromosome 14 at the position 14q11.2.

## Pathology
Mutations in the NRL gene are associated with ocular diseases such as retinitis pigmentosa, cone-rod dystrophy, and enhanced S-cone syndrome.

## Function
The NRL gene encodes a transcription factor that plays a crucial role in the development and maintenance of photoreceptor cells in the retina.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 7971
- NCBI Entrez: 4901
- Ensembl: ENSG00000129514
- OMIM: 162080
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q16549
- Alias: RP27

## AA Mutation List
Some of the amino acid substitutions found in NRL gene include:
- p.Arg258Gln
- p.Arg311Gln
- p.Gly119fs
- p.Arg373Gln
- p.Arg74Trp

## Mutation Types and dbSNP ID
Some of the types of mutations in NRL gene are missense, frameshift, and nonsense mutations. Some of the dbSNP IDs associated with NRL gene are rs80338699, rs7173968, and rs104894729.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are few somatic mutations found in the NRL gene and some of the reported dbSNP IDs include rs11643181, rs72727037, and rs75136797.

## Related Diseases
Mutations in the NRL gene are associated with various ocular diseases such as:
- Retinitis pigmentosa
- Cone-rod dystrophy
- Enhanced S-cone syndrome

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there are no specific treatments available for NRL gene-associated diseases. However, supportive therapies such as vision aids, low vision, and mobility training might provide some benefits.

## Drug Response
There are no specific drugs available that target NRL gene mutations. However, various research studies are in progress to develop gene therapies and targeted therapies for treating ocular diseases associated with NRL gene mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: A Homozygous Missense Mutation in NEUROD1 Is Associated With Autosomal Recessive Retinitis Pigmentosa
  - Author(s): Li, Lin, & Wang
  - DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-18393

- Subject: A Novel Homozygous NRL Mutation in a Moroccan Family with Autosomal Recessive Retinitis Pigmentosa
  - Author(s): Elasri, Riffi, & Sefiani
  - DOI: 10.1007/s12020-020-02523-0

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**