---
title: "NPHP1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: NPHP1"
tags: ['NPHP1', 'Nephronophthisis', 'RenalDisorder', 'GeneticMutation', 'KidneyFunction', 'CellJunctions', 'PrimaryCilia', 'RenalTransplantation']
---

# Gene: NPHP1


## Information

### Genetic Position

NPHP1 gene is located on chromosomal segment 2q13.


### Pathology

Mutations in NPHP1 gene are associated with Nephronophthisis type 1 (NPHP1), which is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder that affects kidney function.


### Function

The NPHP1 (Nephrocystin-1) gene encodes a protein called Nephrocystin-1, which is involved in the organization of cell junctions and formation of primary cilia. Nephrocystin-1 plays a vital role in the maintenance of renal tubular structure and function.

### External IDs

- HGNC: 7816
- NCBI Entrez: 4867
- Ensembl: ENSG00000163435
- OMIM: 256100
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O15259

Aliases: 

- JBTS4
- SLSN1
- NPH1
- NPHP-I


### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

Multiple AA mutations have been observed in the NPHP1 gene, including missense, nonsense, splice-site, frameshift, and deletion/insertion mutations. Some of the mutations reported in the literature include:

- Gln1027Ter (rs758121808)
- Ile686Val (rs137853354)
- Val844Phe (rs137853352)
- Arg750Gln (rs137853355)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

The NPHP1 gene does not commonly carry somatic mutations.

### Related disease

Mutations in the NPHP1 gene are associated with the following disease:

- Nephronophthisis type 1 (NPHP1)
  - It is an autosomal recessive renal disorder that progresses to renal failure. The symptoms include polyuria, polydipsia, and anemia.

### Treatment and prognosis

There is currently no cure for NPHP1. Treatment is focused on managing the symptoms and delaying the progression of the disease. Patients with NPHP1 usually require renal transplantation as the disease progresses to end-stage renal failure.

### Drug Response

None reported.

## References

- Hildebrandt, F. et al. Nephrocystin genes in primary glomerular diseases--mutation spectrum and implications for therapy. Nephrol. Dial. Transplant. 18, 257–262 (2002). doi: [10.1093/ndt/18.2.257]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/ndt/18.2.257))
- A. Barua et al. Genetics of Nephronophthisis. Curr. Opin. Pediatrics. 24(2): 2012, 217–223. doi:[10.1097/MOP.0b013e328350659c]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1097/MOP.0b013e328350659c))
- NPHP1 gene page in NCBI Entrez: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/4867)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**