---
title: "CLDN14"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Analysis of Gene CLDN14 Information"
tags: ['GeneCLDN14', 'TightJunctions', 'AutosomalRecessiveHearingLoss', 'DFNB29', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Analysis of Gene CLDN14 Information

## Gene CLDN14
- CLDN14 is a gene located on chromosome 21q22.11.
- The gene encodes the protein Claudin-14, which is a component of tight junctions in epithelial cells. 
- The function of Claudin-14 is to regulate the paracellular transport of ions and water, thereby playing a critical role in maintaining the proper ionic balance in various organs of the body.

## External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 23562 
- Genomic location: chr21:37607602-37628663 
- Aliases: CJNB1, CLDN14A1, CPE-R10, HOM-SYNCAM, ILVEN, ILVS1, SINUS1 

## AA Mutations and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID
- c.568G>A (p.Gly190Glu) (rs61739047)
- c.394A>G (p.Asn132Ser) (rs141823415)
- c.68C>A (p.Ala23Asp) (rs141492105)
- c.392G>A (p.Gly131Asp) (rs61751681)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for CLDN14.

## Related Diseases
Mutations in the CLDN14 gene have been implicated in several diseases, including:
- Autosomal Recessive nonsyndromic hearing loss (ARNSHL)
- Sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL)

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no specific treatment for genetic mutations associated with CLDN14. Treatment for hearing loss may include the use of hearing aids or cochlear implants. Prognosis varies depending on the severity and progression of hearing loss.

## Drug Response
Currently, there are no known drugs that specifically target CLDN14 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Author: Riazuddin S, et al.
  - Title: Mutations in the gene encoding tight junction claudin-14 cause autosomal recessive deafness DFNB29.
  - DOI: [10.1093/hmg/9.15.2185]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/hmg/9.15.2185))
  - PMID: [10903132]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/10903132/))
- Author: Riazuddin S, et al.
  - Title: Coding mutations in the CLDN14 gene, encoding tight junction components, cause nonsyndromic deafness DFNB29.
  - DOI: [10.1038/ng1557]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng1557))
  - PMID: [15735645]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/15735645/))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**