---
title: "FASLG"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene FASLG"
tags: ['FASLG', 'Apoptosis', 'ImmuneSystem', 'AutoimmuneDisorders', 'Cancer', 'DrugTarget', 'TherapeuticApproach', 'GeneticMutation']
---

# Gene FASLG

## Genetic Position
The FASLG gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 at position 24.3. 

## Pathology
The FASLG gene encodes the Fas ligand, which is a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family. The Fas-FasL signaling pathway plays an important role in apoptosis and immune system regulation. Mutations in or dysregulation of this gene have been linked to various diseases, such as autoimmune disorders, cancer, and infectious diseases.

## Function
The Fas ligand is a transmembrane protein that binds to the Fas receptor on the surface of target cells, leading to their apoptosis. The Fas-FasL pathway has also been shown to have a role in regulating immune cell activation, differentiation, and tolerance.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 3557
- NCBI Entrez: 356
- Ensembl: ENSG00000026103
- OMIM: 134638
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P48023
- Aliases: APTL, CD95L, FASL, TNFSF6

## AA Mutation List with dbSNP IDs
- c.−170CG>AC (rs2072493)
- c.−124A>G (rs5030772)
- c.−75G>A (rs2072423)
- c.26A>G (p.Lys9Arg) (rs137854662)
- c.29T>C (p.Leu10Ser) (rs137854661)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP IDs
- c.−110A>G (rs10498400)
- c.−67A>G (rs5030771)
- c.−43C>T (rs2072408)
- c.−4A>G (rs2072404)
- c.196_197insA (rs794726372)
- c.582G>T (p.Cys194Phe) (rs17879961)
- c. _221delA (rs769672265)

## Related Disease
Mutations or dysregulation of the FASLG gene have been linked to various diseases and conditions, including autoimmune disorders (e.g. systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis), infectious diseases (e.g. hepatitis B virus infection, HIV infection), and cancer (e.g. gastric cancer, liver cancer).

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis for FASLG-related diseases vary depending on the specific condition and disease stage. In some cases, targeting the Fas-FasL pathway with drugs (e.g. anti-FasL antibodies) may be a potential therapeutic approach.

## Drug Response
Due to its role in regulating apoptosis and immune cell function, the Fas-FasL pathway has been studied as a potential therapeutic target for various diseases, including cancer and autoimmune disorders. Drugs targeting this pathway include Fas agonists, anti-Fas antibodies, and Fas-Fc fusion proteins.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Fas-FasL signaling pathway and its role in cancer metastasis
  - Author: Dan Li
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2019.109094
- Subject: Fas/FasL pathway in infections and infectious diseases
  - Author: Eshan A. Vohra et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2019.06.007
- Subject: Fas/FasL-dependent apoptosis regulation in autoimmune diseases
  - Author: Katarzyna Kuryłowicz et al.
  - DOI: 10.1111/cei.13289

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**