---
title: "CTAA1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: CTAA1"
tags: ['CTAA1', 'HLA', 'AntigenPresentation', 'RheumatoidArthritis', 'ImmuneResponse', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'RelatedPapers']
---

## Gene: CTAA1

### Genetic Position
The CTAA1 gene is located on chromosome 6p21.33.

### Pathology
There is limited information available on the pathology of the CTAA1 gene. However, it has been associated with rheumatoid arthritis through its involvement in the HLA-DRB1 locus.

### Function
The CTAA1 gene encodes a protein that is a non-classical MHC class II molecule. It is thought to play a role in antigen presentation and immune response.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 52263
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 388697
- Ensembl: ENSG00000235570
- OMIM: 613653
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BXR8
- Aliases: HLA-DRB6, HLA-DRA3, HLA-DQA3

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported amino acid mutations for the CTAA1 gene.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for the CTAA1 gene.

### Related Disease
The CTAA1 gene has been associated with rheumatoid arthritis.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is limited information available on the treatment and prognosis related to the CTAA1 gene.

### Drug Response
There is limited information available on drug response related to the CTAA1 gene.

### Related Papers
- Subject: CTAA1 gene and rheumatoid arthritis
- Author: Weixia Liu
- DOI: 10.1111/1756-185X.12572 
- Link: [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28116806/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**