---
title: "DFNB31"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene DFNB31"
tags: ['DFNB31', 'NonsyndromicDeafness', 'Whirlin', 'Mutation', 'HearingLoss', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticInformation']
---

# Gene DFNB31

## Information
- **Genetic position:** Chr 9:76,235,714-76,303,146
- **Pathology:** Defects in DFNB31 gene have been linked to nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness (DFNB31).
- **Function:** DFNB31 gene encodes a protein called whirlin which is essential for the maintenance of hair cell stereocilia in the inner ear. It is involved in the organization of F-actin in elongated stereocilia of cochlear hair cells. 

## Identifiers
- **Gene ID:** 25454
- **Aliases:** C9orf75, DFNB31A, USH2D, WHRN
- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 12633
    - NCBI Entrez: 25454
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000003653
    - OMIM: 607928
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y6N9

## Mutations
- **AA mutation list:** Several mutations have been identified in this gene. For example: p.Gly1194SerfsTer14, p.Arg882*, and p.Pro2070LeufsTer7.
- **Mutation types:** Frameshift, Nonsense, and Missense.
- **dbSNP ID:** rs794728797, rs1219089716, rs764328697

## Related Disease
- Nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness (DFNB31)

## Treatment and prognosis
- There is no cure for DFNB31, but hearing can be improved with the use of hearing aids or cochlear implants.
- The prognosis for DFNB31 is variable and depends on the severity of the hearing loss.

## Drug Response
- There is no specific drug for DFNB31, but hearing aids and cochlear implants can significantly improve hearing. 

## Related Papers
- Subject: Nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness (DFNB31)
- Author: Zoghi M, et al.
- DOI: 10.1002/humu.24065

- Subject: Mutations in DFNB31, Encoding a Protein of the Postsynaptic Density Protein Interaction Network, Cause Autosomal-Recessive Nonsyndromic Hearing Loss DFNB31
- Author: Schultz JM, et al.
- DOI: 10.1086/508194

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**