---
title: "SBDS"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SBDS"
tags: ['SBDS', 'ShwachmanDiamondSyndrome', 'RibosomeBiogenesis', 'BoneMarrowFailure', 'PancreaticInsufficiency', 'GCSF', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene SBDS

## Genetic Position
The SBDS gene is located on chromosome 7q11.21, from base pair 73,137,671 to base pair 73,140,811.

## Pathology
Mutations in the SBDS gene can cause an autosomal recessive disease called Shwachman-Diamond syndrome (SDS). SDS is characterized by bone marrow failure, pancreatic insufficiency, and skeletal abnormalities.

## Function
The SBDS gene encodes a protein called Shwachman-Bodian-Diamond syndrome protein, which is involved in various cellular processes, including ribosome biogenesis, ribosome assembly, and RNA processing.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 10517
- NCBI Entrez: 51119
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105877
- OMIM: 607444
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8IWZ5
- Aliases: SDS, Shwachman-Diamond syndrome

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- A9V - Missense - rs28933389
- G12R - Missense - rs137853045
- G20V - Missense - rs137853046
- R23X - Non-sense - rs137853047
- R26S - Missense - rs121434591
- R55C - Missense - rs137853048
- R116X - Non-sense - rs28939601

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No known somatic SNVs or InDels in the SBDS gene have a dbSNP ID.

## Related Disease
Shwachman-Diamond Syndrome (SDS)

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for SDS mainly involves managing symptoms such as infections, pancreatic insufficiency, and bone marrow failure. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disease and the age of diagnosis. Some patients may require a bone marrow transplant, while others have a better prognosis and may only need supportive care.

## Drug Response
Studies have shown that some SDS patients have responded to treatment with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), which can improve neutrophil counts and reduce the risk of infection.

## Related Papers and Authors
- Boocock, G. R. B., Morrison, J. A., Popovic, M., Richards, N., Ellis, L., Durie, P. R., Rommens, J. M., & Hébert, T. E. (2003). Mutations in SBDS are associated with Shwachman-Diamond syndrome. Nature genetics, 33(1), 97–101. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng1062)
- Kalikin, L. M., & Cathey, S. (2018). Shwachman-Diamond Syndrome. In StatPearls. StatPearls Publishing. [Click](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK519573/)
- Kuijpers, T. W., Alders, M., Tool, A. T. J., Mellink, C. H. M., Roos, D., Hennekam, R. C. M., & van der Burg, M. (2018). Hematological abnormalities in Shwachman Diamond syndrome: lack of genotype–phenotype relationship. Blood, 131(12), 1310–1319. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1182/blood-2017-10-811958)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**