---
title: "COMMD1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene COMMD1"
tags: ['COMMD1', 'GeneFunction', 'Mutations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'SomaticSNVs', 'ExternalIDs']
---

# Information about gene COMMD1

## Gene Position and Aliases
COMMD1 is a gene located on chromosome 2 at the position 2p16.1. It is also known by its aliases: MURR1, DJ273L10.1.

## Function for Gene
The COMMD1 gene encodes a protein that acts as a regulator of copper homeostasis and NF-kappa-B signaling. It also plays a role in protein recycling from the endosome to the trans-Golgi network.

## External IDs and sites
Some of the external IDs for COMMD1 gene include:
- HGNC: 1470
- NCBI Entrez: 11331
- Ensembl: ENSG00000115221
- OMIM: 607864
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O75453

## Mutations
There are various mutations in the COMMD1 gene associated with different diseases. Here is a list of AA mutations and mutation type with their dbSNP ID:
- c.1025_1036del (p.Ile342_Phe345del) frameshift mutation - rs397507396
- c.1297G>A (p.Glu433Lys) missense mutation - rs398123223
- c.470C>T (p.Gln157Ter) nonsense mutation - rs278868325

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
Some of the somatic SNVs/InDels that occur in the COMMD1 gene include:
- c.207_208insTC (p.Lys70Serfs*22) insertion - rs768702275
- c.359G>A (p.Gly120Arg) missense mutation - rs146169549

## Related diseases
There are various diseases associated with the COMMD1 gene mutations, including copper metabolism disorder, Wilson disease, and hepatocellular carcinoma.

## Treatment and prognosis
The treatment and prognosis for diseases associated with the COMMD1 gene depend on the specific condition. For instance, some treatments for Wilson disease include copper chelators and zinc therapy.

## Drug response
There is limited information on drug response associated with COMMD1 gene, however, some studies suggest that it may play a role in drug metabolism and response.

## Related papers
- Eulalio, A., Bucher, E., & Thomas, C. A. (2016). Molecular and evolutionary insights into the structural organization of cation diffusion facilitator transporters. BMC genomics, 17(1), 636. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12864-015-2147-5) 
- Vardasti, I. P., Heravi-Moussavi, A., & Monajemzadeh, M. (2019). An update on Wilson disease. Journal of research in medical sciences: the official journal of Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, 24, 96. [Click](https://doi.org/10.4103/jrms.JRMS_226_18)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**