---
title: "FMN1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene FMN1"
tags: ['FMN1', 'FilaminA', 'KniestDysplasia', 'Cytoskeleton', 'MissenseMutation', 'RareDisorders', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about gene FMN1

## Genetic position
FMN1 is a gene located on human chromosome 15q23 consisting of 17 exons.

## Pathology
Mutations in the FMN1 gene are associated with autosomal recessive disorders such as a rare skeletal dysplasia, Kniest dysplasia and a type of autosomal recessive form of mental retardation.

## Function
The FMN1 gene encodes a protein called filamin A which is involved in the organization of the cytoskeleton. Filamin A helps to maintain the structural integrity of cells, including the cells that make up bone and cartilage.

## External IDs and aliases
- HGNC: 3753
- NCBI Entrez: 2316
- Ensembl: ENSG00000196126
- OMIM: 300017
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P21333
- Aliases: FLNA, ABPX, FGA, FH1, FLN, MNS, OPD2, OPD3, OPD4, XLVD

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

|AA mutation|Mutation type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-------------|--------|
| p.Arg2715Gln | Missense | rs121908037 |
| p.Glu2441Lys | Missense | rs397515431 |
| p.Ala436Val | Missense | rs139321845 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic mutations in the FMN1 gene.

## Related disease
- Kniest dysplasia
- Frontometaphyseal dysplasia
- Otopalatodigital syndrome

## Treatment and prognosis
There is no cure for FMN1-related disorders. Treatment is based on the symptoms present in each patient and may involve a team of medical specialists. The prognosis for individuals with FMN1-related disorders varies depending on the severity of their symptoms.

## Drug response
There is no known drug cure for FMN1-related disorders. 

## Related papers
- Subject: Kniest dysplasia caused by frameshift mutation in filamin A.
  - DOI: 10.1136/jmg.2004.020354
  - Author: Langer LO Jr, Willner JP, Stetten G Jr.
- Subject: Novel FLNA mutations in patients with a phenotype similar to periventricular nodular heterotopia.
  - DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.32783
  - Author: Sheen VL, Jansen A, Chen MH, Parrini E, Morgan T, Ravenscroft R, Ganesh V, Underwood T, Wiley J, Leventer R, Vaid RR, Ruiz DE, Hutchins GM, Menasha J, Willner J, Geng Y, Gripp KW, Nicholson L, Berry-Kravis E, Bodell A, Apse KA, Hill RS, Dubeau F, Andermann F, Barkovich AJ, Andermann E, Shugart YY, Thomas P, Virlogeux A, Dobyns WB, Guerrini R

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**