---
title: "UBR1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene UBR1"
tags: ['UBR1', 'JohansonBlizzardSyndrome', 'UbiquitinProteinLigase', 'GeneticMutation', 'ProteinDegradation', 'RareDisease', 'SymptomManagement', 'NonsenseMutation']
---

# Gene UBR1

## Information

Gene UBR1 is located on chromosome 15 at the position 15q15.2. It is a ubiquitin-protein ligase E3 component N-recognin 1 gene. It has external IDs such as HGNC:12457, NCBI Entrez: 197131, Ensembl: ENSG00000103449, OMIM: 605983, and UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8IUW5. The gene has several aliases such as EDD, HECT domain-containing protein 6, UBR1A, and N-recognin-1.

## Function

The UBR1 gene plays a role in ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation by recognizing and targeting misfolded proteins for degradation. It is involved in several cellular processes such as DNA repair, gene expression regulation, and cell cycle progression.

## Mutations

The UBR1 gene has several mutations, including missense mutations, frameshift mutations, and nonsense mutations. Some of the common mutations include:

- c.142C>T (p.Thr48Met) with dbSNP ID: rs753430017
- c.6077dupC (p.Glu2026Profs*19) with dbSNP ID: rs646779772
- c.1823T>G (p.Tyr608Ter) with dbSNP ID: rs753971490

## Related Diseases

Mutations in the UBR1 gene are associated with Johanson-Blizzard syndrome (JBS), which is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that affects several parts of the body, including the head, face, and digestive system.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no specific treatment for JBS. Treatment involves managing symptoms, such as growth hormone therapy, antibiotics, and nutritional support. The prognosis of JBS is dependent on the severity of the symptoms.

## Drug Response

There is no known drug response associated with mutations in the UBR1 gene.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Johanson-Blizzard syndrome caused by novel UBR1 mutations in two Turkish patients.
  - Author: Karaman B, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/bdr2.1460

- Subject: A dominant mutation in the stereocilia-expressed gene TBC1D24 causes nonsyndromic hearing impairment.
  - Author: Wiemann S, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1186/s12864-019-5978-y

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**