---
title: "HCCS"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# HCCS Gene Information"
tags: ['HCCS', 'MitochondrialMyopathy', 'HolocytochromeC', 'GeneticMutation', 'PhysicalTherapy', 'Prognosis', 'UniProt', 'OMIM']
---

# HCCS Gene Information

**Genetic Position:** Chromosome X: 38,198,306 - 38,207,353 

**Function:** The HCCS gene codes for the holocytochrome c-type synthase enzyme, which plays a vital role in the synthesis of holocytochrome c, a protein required for cellular respiration. 

**External IDs:**

- HGNC: 4853 
- NCBI Entrez: 3057 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000197381 
- OMIM: 300056 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60480 

**Aliases:** HCCS, HCS, HCCH

**AA Mutation List:**

The following is a list of amino acid mutations for HCCS along with their mutation types and dbSNP IDs:

| Mutation  | Type  | dbSNP ID  |
|-----------|-------|-----------|
| L26F      | Missense | rs137852689 |
| R53X      | Nonsense | rs137852690 |
| D59G      | Missense | rs559028238 |
| G84S      | Missense | rs137852691 |
| R116W     | Missense | rs137852692 |
| T156A     | Missense | rs137852693 |
| C184G     | Missense | rs137852694 |
| R195G     | Missense | rs137852695 |
| E272X     | Nonsense | rs137852696 |
| G273R     | Missense | rs137852697 |
| R294L     | Missense | rs137852698 |
| Y344H     | Missense | rs137852699 |
| R362C     | Missense | rs137852700 |

**Somatic SNVs/InDels:**

Currently, no somatic SNVs/InDels have been identified for HCCS.

**Related Disease:**

Mutations in the HCCS gene have been associated with X-linked dominant, non-syndromic mitochondrial myopathy with bilateral paraspinal muscle or generalized weakness and elevation of muscle enzymes.

**Treatment and Prognosis:**

There is currently no cure for HCCS-related mitochondrial myopathy, but treatment includes physical therapy and exercise to improve muscle strength. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disease and can range from mild to severe disability.

**Drug Response:**

There is no known drug response specific to HCCS-related mitochondrial myopathy.

**References:**

1. OMIM: [Click](https://www.omim.org/entry/300056)
2. Genetics Home Reference: [Click](https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/HCCS)
3. UniProt: [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/O60480)
4. Sevrioukova I, et al. (2010) Mitochondrial holocytochrome c synthase. Curr Opin Struct Biol 20(4): 440-46. doi: 10.1016/j.sbi.2010.04.010. PMID: 20471257.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**