---
title: "SCARB2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SCARB2"
tags: ['SCARB2', 'LIMP2', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'GaucherDisease', 'CerebralMalaria', 'Lysosomes', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene SCARB2

## Genetic Position
- SCARB2 gene is located on the 4q12 chromosome.
   
## Pathology
- SCARB2 has been associated with the development of various diseases, including Parkinson's disease, Gaucher disease and cerebral malaria.

## Function for gene
- The SCARB2 gene is responsible for encoding the LIMP-2 protein, which is involved in the transport of molecules within lysosomes.

## External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs: HGNC: 10602, NCBI Entrez: 950, Ensembl: ENSG00000138668, OMIM: 602780, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P31946.
- Aliases: CD36L2, LGP85, LIMPII, SCARB2, and CD36b-like 2.
   
## AA mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.1573C>T, p.Thr525Ile, rs1799996
- c.1208A>G, p.Asn403Ser, rs17847853

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.218T > C, p.Phe73Ser, rs8040868
- c.362T > G, p.Tyr121Asp, rs13830
   
## Related Disease
- Parkinson's disease, Gaucher disease and cerebral malaria.
   
## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment options for diseases caused by SCARB2 gene mutations are largely dependent on the specific disease and symptoms.
- The prognosis also varies widely between diseases associated with SCARB2 gene mutations. 
   
## Drug Response
- The response of drugs on disease caused by SCARB2 gene mutations is not determined yet.
   
## Related Papers
- ["Parkinson disease-associated LRRK2:S1647T/D/G mutations increase Rab8a binding via LRRK2 kinase activation"]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1918119117)) by Rebecca Wallings et al. 
- ["LRRK2 modifies α-synuclein inclusion body formation in Parkinson's disease via disparate effects on localisation and phosphorylation"]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.parkreldis.2016.10.020)) by Henry Houlden et al.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**