---
title: "PMPCA"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: PMPCA"
tags: ['PMPCA', 'CerebellarAtaxia', 'Cataracts', 'DevelopmentalDelay', 'MitochondrialProcessingPeptidase', 'PontocerebellarHypoplasia', 'MissenseMutation', 'NeurologicalDisorder']
---

# Gene: PMPCA

## Genetic Position
PMPCA is located on chromosome 9 at the position 9q22.31.

## Pathology
Mutations in PMPCA have been associated with cerebellar ataxia, cataracts, and developmental delay (CACD syndrome). Additionally, PMPCA has also been linked to pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 6 (PCH6), a rare neurological disorder characterized by abnormal development of the brain.

## Function
PMPCA encodes a mitochondrial processing peptidase which is a protein-cleaving enzyme responsible for the removal of N-terminal presequences of mitochondrial proteins, allowing for their proper localization and functioning.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 17757
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 84332
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000106916
- OMIM ID: 614931
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9ULC6
- Aliases: IOP1, PREP, STE24

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg167Gln (rs386834060): missense mutation
- p.Arg163Cys (rs786205432): missense mutation
- p.Arg163His (rs201882038): missense mutation
- p.Arg200Trp (rs730882802): missense mutation

## Somatic SNVs/Indels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic mutations in PMPCA.

## Related Diseases
- Cerebellar ataxia, cataracts, and developmental delay (CACD) syndrome
- Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 6 (PCH6)

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for CACD syndrome and PCH6 is focused on the management of symptoms and supportive care as there are no specific cures available. The prognosis for patients with these conditions is variable, depending on the severity of symptoms and the presence of other complications.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response for PMPCA mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Novel PMPCA mutations cause cerebellar ataxia, cataracts, and developmental delay
  - Author: Lal D
  - DOI: 10.1002/ana.24052
- Subject: Biallelic PMPCA mutations cause abnormal mitochondrial protein processing, neurological impairment, and pontocerebellar hypoplasia
  - Author: Pyle A
  - DOI: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2015-103039

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**