---
title: "SLC25A38"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SLC25A38"
tags: ['SLC25A38', 'MitochondrialTransport', 'Apoptosis', 'CardiovascularDisease', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticPosition', 'RelatedPapers', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene SLC25A38

## Genetic Position
SLC25A38 is located on the long arm of chromosome 3 at position 3q26.33.

## Pathology
There is no clear pathology associated with SLC25A38. However, some studies suggest that SLC25A38 may play a role in the progression of cardiovascular disease.

## Function 
SLC25A38 encodes a transmembrane protein that is involved in the transport of mitochondrial ADP and ATP. It is also believed to be involved in the mitochondrial permeability transition, which is a key event in apoptotic cell death.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: HGNC:19149
- NCBI Entrez: 55129
- Ensembl: ENSG00000170525
- OMIM: 611509
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q86VI4
- Aliases: MIR, MCUb, SLC25A38b

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
No common or pathogenic variants have been reported in SLC25A38.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic variants have been reported in SLC25A38.

## Related Disease
There are no diseases directly associated with SLC25A38. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
As there are currently no diseases directly associated with SLC25A38, there is no specific treatment or prognosis associated with this gene.

## Drug Response
No drugs have been found to target SLC25A38 specifically.

## Related Papers
- Subject: The mitochondrial calcium uniporter: regulation by auxiliary subunits and signal transduction pathways.
  Author: Mammucari C, Raffaello A, VecellioReane D, Gherardi G, DeMario A, Rizzuto R.
  DOI: 10.3389/fphys.2015.00265
- Subject: A mitochondrial pyruvate carrier required for pyruvate uptake in yeast, Drosophila, and humans.
  Author: Bricker DK, Taylor EB, Schell JC, Orsak T, Boutron A, Chen YC, Cox JE, Cardon CM, Van Vranken JG, Dephoure N, Redin C, Boudina S, Gygi SP, Brivet M, Thummel CS, Rutter J.
  DOI: 10.1038/nature13464

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**