---
title: "NFATC2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Analysis of Gene NFATC2"
tags: ['NFATC2', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'GeneExpression', 'DilatedCardiomyopathy', 'AlzheimersDisease', 'Cancer', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Analysis of Gene NFATC2

## Gene Information

- Gene Name: NFATC2
- Function: This gene encodes a member of the nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) protein family. The encoded protein is a transcription factor that plays a role in regulating gene expression in response to a variety of stimuli, including T cell activation and calcium signaling. It is also involved in the development and differentiation of various cell types. 
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 20: 51,000,000-51,155,455
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 7764 
    - NCBI Entrez: 4773
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000101412 
    - OMIM: 600489
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13469
- Aliases: NFAT1, NF-ATp, NFATP

## Mutations
- AA Mutation List:
  - p.Pro317Serfs*15
  - p.Arg402*
- Mutation Type: frameshift and nonsense
- dbSNP IDs:
  - rs768408412
  - rs1057519491

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: None reported in COSMIC and cBioPortal databases

## Related Diseases
- Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM)
- Alzheimer's disease
- Cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment: There is currently no specific treatment for mutations in NFATC2, but treatment may depend on the specific related disease.
- Prognosis: Prognosis may depend on the specific related disease and severity of the mutation.

## Drug Response
- There is no drug response information available for NFATC2 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: NFATC2 mutations in patients with diverse clinical presentations of cardiomyopathy
  - Author Name: Girolami F, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1186/s12967-017-1221-0
- Subject: NFAT signaling and bone homeostasis
  - Author Name: Chen X, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1167/iovs.05-1317
- Subject: Roles of the calcineurin/NFAT pathway in pancreatic beta-cell function
  - Author Name: Shibasaki F.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.jbior.2012.10.002

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**