---
title: "PTPRT"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# **Gene Information Analysis for PTPRT**"
tags: ['GenePTPRT', 'ProteinTyrosinePhosphatase', 'NeuronDifferentiation', 'Cancer', 'DevelopmentalDisorders', 'TreatmentTargets', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# **Gene Information Analysis for PTPRT**

## General Information
- Gene Name: Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Receptor Type T 
- Alias: R-PTP-T 
- External IDs: HGNC:9643; NCBI Entrez Gene: 5788; Ensembl: ENSG00000108654; OMIM: 601605; UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13332
- Genomic location: Chromosome 20q13.33
- Pathology: PTPRT has been involved in various diseases such as cancer, developmental disorders, neurological and behavioral disorders.
---

## Function for Gene
PTPRT is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family that regulates various cellular processes such as cellular differentiation, proliferation, and transformation. Specifically, PTPRT plays a crucial role in the regulation of neuron differentiation and migration during development.

---

## Mutation Analysis
- AA Mutation List: The aa mutation list and mutation type can be found in UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot database. 
- Common mutations: rs121918318, rs753991011
- Mutation Type: Missense, Frameshift, Nonsense
- dbSNP ID: rs121918318, rs753991011

---

## Somatic SNVs/InDels Analysis
There are many somatic SNVs/InDels found in PTPRT across various cancers such as lung cancer, breast cancer, and head/neck cancer. The dbSNP ID and respective cancer type can be found in the COSMIC database.

---

## Related Disease
PTPRT dysregulation has been found to be associated with various diseases. Loss of function mutations or downregulation of PTPRT leads to tumor development and progression. PTPRT has also been found to be involved in brain development disorders such as autism and epilepsy, and schizophrenia.

---

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are no special treatments available for PTPRT mutations. However, potential therapeutic targets for PTPRT-related cancers are currently being investigated. Depending on the type and severity of associated disease, individual treatment plans and prognoses will vary.

---

## Drug Response
Studies have shown that PTPRT dysregulation affects chemosensitivity in certain cancers. Preclinical studies suggest that PTPRT may be used as a potential therapeutic target in the treatment of some cancers.

---

## Related Papers
1. Subject: PTPRT Acts as a Tumor Suppressor in Colorectal Cancer through Non-catalytic Regulation of Protein Kinase Cd.
Author: Liu, J., et al. 
DOI: 10.21037/tcr.2018.07.03

2. Subject: Loss of protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type T decreases synapse density in the dentate gyrus and associates with autism-like behaviors.
Author: Zhang, J., et al.
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0099510.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**