---
title: "NSDHL"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: NSDHL"
tags: ['NSDHL', 'ChildSyndrome', 'CholesterolSynthesis', 'MissenseMutation', 'SkinAbnormalities', 'Sterol4AlphaCarboxylate3Dehydrogenase', 'RareDisease', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: NSDHL

## Information
- **Genetic Position:** Xq28 
- **Pathology:** NSDHL gene mutations are associated with the incidence of Child syndrome, a rare X-linked dominant disorder characterized by congenital erythroderma (red skin), hypertrichosis (excessive hair growth), and a host of other developmental abnormalities, including digital hypoplasia, syndactyly (fusion of fingers), and heart and lung defects. 
- **Function:** NSDHL, an enzyme involved in the synthesis of cholesterol and the other sterols, is found in all mammalian cells. The protein encoded by this gene binds to the CoA ester of lanosterol and catalyzes the formation of 14-alpha-methyl sterols required for membrane synthesis and cell growth.

## External IDs
- **Gene:** NSDHL
- **Genomic Location:** X:152,954,603-153,010,755
- **Aliases:** Sterol 4-alpha-carboxylate 3-dehydrogenase, delta-7-sterol reductase

## External Sites
- **HGNC:** HGNC:7972
- **NCBI Entrez:**  NCBIGene:55701
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000198625
- **OMIM:** 300275
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q15738

## AA Mutation List with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID
- p.Arg429Trp (Missense), dbSNP:rs201148292
- p.Arg429Gln (Missense), dbSNP:rs104894081
- p.Asn140Lys (Missense), dbSNP:rs369680326

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Not Available

## Related Disease
- **Disease Name:** Child Syndrome
- **OMIM ID:** 308050
- **MedGen UID:** 464190
- **MeSH ID:** Not Available

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment for Child syndrome involves treating the symptoms, such as using moisturizers for the skin or surgery for digital hypoplasia or syndactyly. There is no specific cure for Child syndrome, and prognosis depends on the severity of the individual's symptoms.

## Drug Response
- Not Available

## Paper Links
- **Title:** A phenotype-driven approach to generate mouse models with pathogenic mtDNA mutations causing mitochondrial disease
  - **Author(s):** H Taylor et al.
  - **DOI:** 10.1007/978-1-4939-2864-4_10
- **Title:** Child Syndrome: Case Report
  - **Author(s):** K Tomi et al.
  - **DOI:** 10.3349/ymj.2011.52.4.748
- **Title:** The steroidogenic enzyme NSDHL: comparative studies of mutations found in Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome patients
  - **Author(s):** J Kolyva et al.
  - **DOI:** 10.1111/febs.15147

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**