---
title: "WWC1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene WWC1"
tags: ['WWC1', 'KIBRA', 'HippoSignalingPathway', 'CancerDevelopment', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'EMT', 'ProteinKinaseCzeta', 'MemoryFormation']
---

# Gene WWC1

## Basic Information

**Gene Symbol:** WWC1

**Gene Name:** WW and C2 domain containing 1

**Genomic Location:** Chromosome 5; position: p15.2

**Aliases:** KIBRA, WWC, KIAA0715 

## Function

WWC1 encodes a protein known as KIBRA, which contains two WW domains and one C2 domain. The protein is involved in various processes such as cell proliferation, cell migration, and the regulation of the Hippo signaling pathway. Research has suggested that this gene may also play a role in memory formation and cognitive function.

## External IDs and Links

- HGNC ID: 28969
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 55035
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000113504
- OMIM ID: 609291
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q6IQ55

## Mutations

### AA Mutation List 
A list of amino acid (AA) mutations can be found in the UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot link above. 

### Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
No pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants have currently been found in the WWC1 gene according to ClinVar database.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

No record of somatic SNVs/InDels have currently been found in the WWC1 gene according to the dbSNP database.

## Related Diseases

Recent studies suggest that WWC1 may play a role in the development of multiple cancers, including breast, colon, and lung cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Due to its potential role in cancer development, WWC1 has been suggested as a possible therapeutic target. However, further research and clinical studies are needed to fully understand its therapeutic potential.

## Drug Response

No specific drugs have been identified for WWC1.

## Related Papers and Authors

- "WWC1 regulates breast cancer cell migration and invasion via suppression of EMT-associated genes" by Li et al. 2017. DOI: [10.18632/oncotarget.13932](https://doi.org/10.18632/oncotarget.13932))
- "KIBRA is a novel substrate for protein kinase Czeta" by Locke et al. 2009. DOI: [10.1042/BJ20081366](https://doi.org/10.1042/BJ20081366))
- "KIBRA regulates Hippo signaling activity via interactions with large tumor suppressor kinases" by Vassilev et al. 2011. DOI: [10.1074/jbc.M110.123687](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M110.123687))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**