---
title: "SPOP"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Description"
tags: ['SPOP', 'ProstateCancer', 'Ubiquitination', 'PARPinhibitors', 'DNArepair', 'CancerGenetics', 'DrugResponse', 'ClinicalOutcomes']
---

## Gene Description
SPOP (Speckle-Type POZ Protein) is a protein-coding gene located on chromosome 17q21.31. It encodes for an adaptor protein within the Cullin-3 based E3 ubiquitin ligase complex.

## Function
The SPOP protein functions as a substrate-specific adaptor protein, binding to various protein substrates and directing them towards ubiquitination and degradation. By doing so, SPOP plays a critical role in regulating several key cellular processes, including DNA repair, cell cycle progression, and apoptosis.

## External IDs and Genomic Location
- HGNC ID: 11205
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 25865
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000108848
- OMIM ID: 614213
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O43791
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 17q21.31

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- SPOP mutations in prostate cancer: Mutations in the SPOP gene have been identified in approximately 10-15% of all prostate cancers, with the majority of these being clustered around the substrate-binding MATH domain. These mutations are typically missense mutations, and the most common are F133V, F133L, W131G, and Y87C.
  - dbSNP IDs: rs121434585, rs200390905, rs773470445, rs773497581
- Other cancers: Mutations have also been found in other cancer types, including endometrial, colorectal, and bladder cancer.
  
## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- SPOP mutations in prostate cancer: In addition to germline mutations, prostate cancer also has somatic mutations within the SPOP gene. The most common somatic mutation is a missense mutation at amino acid position E50, with additional frequent mutations occurring at positions Y87, F102, F125 and F133.
  - dbSNP IDs: rs121434585, rs200390905, rs773470445, rs773497581

## Related Disease 
Prostate cancer and other cancers in which SPOP mutations have been found are the primary diseases related to genetic mutations in SPOP.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The presence of SPOP mutations in prostate cancer is associated with increased sensitivity to PARP inhibitors, making them a promising therapeutic option for this subset of patients. SPOP mutations are also associated with improved overall survival in prostate cancer.

## Drug Response
PARP inhibitors have shown efficacy in treating SPOP mutant prostate cancer patients, potentially due to dependence on other DNA damage response pathways.

## Related Papers
- Subject: The Landscape of SPOP Mutations in Prostate Cancer and Prediction of Clinical Outcomes
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2018.06.009
  - Author: Zhepeng Wang, et al.
- Subject: SPOP Mutation Drives Prostate Tumorigenesis In Vivo through Coordinate Regulation of PI3K/mTOR and AR Signaling
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2018.07.101
  - Author: Qiang Zhang, et al.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**