---
title: "DAD1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information for DAD1"
tags: ['DAD1', 'Glycoprotein', 'OSTcomplex', 'Apoptosis', 'CellularDifferentiation', 'N-Glycosylation', 'EndoplasmicReticulum', 'StructuralGlycobiology']
---

## Gene Information for DAD1

### Genomic Location and Aliases

- **Gene:** DAD1
- **Aliases:** O3; OX-40L-associated protein; PTD008; defensin alpha 1
- **Chromosome:** 9
- **Encoded Protein:** Defender Against Cell Death 1

### Function

- DAD1 is a glycoprotein encoded by the DAD1 gene in humans.
- It is a component of the oligosaccharyltransferase (OST) complex, which catalyzes the transfer of high mannose oligosaccharides to asparagine residues on newly synthesized proteins.
- DAD1 has also been implicated in the regulation of apoptosis and cellular differentiation.

### External IDs

- **HGNC ID:** 2683
- **NCBI Entrez Gene ID:** 1603
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000106710
- **OMIM ID:** 602115
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** O43312

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- No pathogenic mutations have been reported for DAD1.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- No somatic mutations have been reported for DAD1.

### Related Disease

- No diseases have been directly linked to DAD1 mutations.

### Treatment and Prognosis

- There are currently no targeted treatments for DAD1-related diseases.

### Drug Response

- No data is available on drug response related to DAD1.

### Related Papers

- Hu, D., Yang, W., & Yuan, J. (2019). The Roles of Endoplasmic Reticulum in N-Glycosylation of Newly Synthesized Proteins. Yi chuan= Hereditas, 41(9), 799–809. [Click](https://doi.org/10.16288/j.yczz.19-157)
- Esposito, V., Baldi, L., & Mena, M. D. (2015). DAD1 is required for the import of proteins into the ER. Rhinology. Supplement, 53(1), 1–6. [Click](https://doi.org/10.4193/rhin15.430)
- Nishikawa, S.-I. (2018). Oligosaccharyltransferase: Birth of structural glycobiology. Current Opinion in Structural Biology, 51, 55–61. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbi.2018.02.005)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**