---
title: "SETX"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SETX"
tags: ['SETX', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorders', 'Senataxin', 'RNAIntegrity', 'DNARepair', 'MissenseMutation', 'FrameshiftMutation', 'DiseasePrognosis']
---

# Gene SETX

## Information
- **Pathology:** SETX gene is associated with the development of several neurodegenerative disorders such as Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), Ataxia with Oculomotor Apraxia type 2 (AOA2), and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2 (CMT2).
- **Function:** SETX encodes for a DNA/RNA helicase protein called Senataxin that plays a major role in maintaining RNA integrity and transcriptional regulation. It also repairs DNA damage and contributes to the suppression of repeat-associated non-AUG (RAN) translation.
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 10704
    - NCBI Entrez: 23064
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000105382
    - OMIM: 608465
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q7Z333
- **Aliases:** ALS4, AOA2, CMT2A, SCAR1.
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 9q34.13.

## Mutations
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:** 

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|-----------|
| P991L | Missense | rs387906797 |
| R2136C | Missense | rs137852459 |
| Q958P | Missense | rs869025017 |
| V302fs | Frameshift | rs368876510 |
| K1335fs | Frameshift | rs750383667 |
| S985G | Missense | rs776063882 |
| D270G | Missense | rs140053759 |
| R375H | Missense | rs267606999 |

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** None reported.

## Related Disease
- Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS)
- Ataxia with Oculomotor Apraxia type 2 (AOA2)
- Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2 (CMT2)

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for the diseases associated with SETX mutations. Treatment mainly focuses on relieving symptoms and slowing down disease progression. Prognosis varies depending on the severity and progression of the disease.

## Drug Response
There is no known drug response associated with SETX mutations.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** Ataxia with oculomotor apraxia type 2: a clinical and genetic study of 19 patients. 
- **Author Name:** Dubourg O, Azzedine H, Verny C, Durosier G, Birouk N, Gouider R, Salih M, Bouhouche A, Thibault C, Moutard ML, Brice A, Yahyaoui M, Hentati F, Coutinho P, Benomar A, Hamri A, Kabira EH, Al-Memar A, Weissenbach J, Chaouch M, Lévy N. 
- **DOI link:** 10.1002/ana.21149
- **Subject:** Senataxin, defective in ataxia oculomotor apraxia type 2, is involved in the defense against oxidative DNA damage. 
- **Author Name:** Suraweera A, Becherel OJ, Chen P, Rundle N, Woods R, Nakamura J, Gatei M, Criscuolo C, Filla A, Chessa L, Fusser M, Epe B, Gueven N, Lavin MF. 
- **DOI link:** 10.1073/pnas.0806177105

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**