---
title: "C12orf65"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene C12orf65"
tags: ['C12orf65', 'MitochondrialRNAProcessing', 'PrimaryOvarianInsufficiency', 'AdrenocorticalDisease', 'MissenseMutation', 'GeneticInformation', 'MitochondrialDysfunction', 'Infertility']
---

# Information about Gene C12orf65

## Genetic Position

C12orf65 gene is located on the Chromosome 12. The genomic location specified is 12q24.33.

## Pathology and Function

This gene, also known as Mitochondrial 12S rRNA binding protein or MMRBP1, encodes a protein involved in the regulation of mitochondrial RNA processing. It plays a crucial role in the correct function of the mitochondria. C12orf65 has been associated with the occurrence of diseases such as primary ovarian insufficiency and primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease.

## External IDs and Aliases

- External IDs: HGNC: 34183, Entrez Gene: 84142, Ensembl: ENSG00000110344, OMIM: 614947, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96BL3
- Aliases: MMRBP1, PRO2402, DKFZP564N0215

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

The dbSNP ID, rs number and the mutation involved in the amino acid for C12orf65 Gene are given below:

| dbSNP ID | Mutation Type | Amino Acid |
| --- | --- | --- |
| rs763809847 | Missense | Valine to Leucine at position 72 |
| rs672601921 | Missense | Serine to Arginine at position 103 |
| rs1057519621 | Missense | Leucine to Proline at position 109 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID reported for this gene yet.

## Related Disease

C12orf65 has been associated with primary ovarian insufficiency and primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease

## Treatment and Prognosis

At present, there is no specific treatment available for the conditions caused by the mutation in C12orf65. However, proper diagnosis and management of the hormone levels can help women with primary ovarian insufficiency to lead normal lives.

## Drug Response

No drug response related to this gene has been found yet.

## Related Papers

- Subject: The human mitochondrial transcriptome
    - Author: Mercer, Tim R et al
    - DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkr083
    - Link: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3061064/)
- Subject: Genetics of mitochondrial dysfunction and infertility
    - Author: Rahman, Shamima et al  
    - DOI: 10.1186/s13039-020-00496-y
    - Link: [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32731874/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**