---
title: "EPO"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene EPO "
tags: ['GeneEPO', 'Chromosome7q22.1', 'Erythropoietin', 'Polycythemia', 'Anemia', 'CardiovascularDisease', 'Treatment', 'Mutation']
---

# Gene EPO 
## Information

**Genetic position:** Chromosome 7q22.1.

**Pathology:** Mutations in the EPO gene have been associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease, as well as polycythemia and other hematological disorders.

**Function:** The EPO gene encodes for the hormone erythropoietin. Erythropoietin drives the production of red blood cells in the bone marrow. 

**Aliases:** EPO, EP, MVCD2.

**External IDs:**
- HGNC: 3391
- NCBI EntrezGene: 2056
- Ensembl: ENSG00000130427
- OMIM: 133170
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P01588

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

|AA position|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|47|Missense|rs1617640|
|78|Missense|rs6759909|
|90|Missense|rs2287894|
|112|Missense|rs11549465|
|149|Missense|rs4703322|

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|
|Missense|rs36029714|
|Missense|rs80338700|
|Missense|rs80338701|
|InDel|rs587745043|

**Related disease:** Mutations in the EPO gene have been associated with polycythemia, which is characterized by an overproduction of red blood cells. This can lead to complications such as blood clots, stroke, and heart attack.

**Treatment and prognosis:** There is no curative treatment for polycythemia vera, but treatments aim to alleviate symptoms and reduce the risk of complications. These may include phlebotomy, chemotherapy, or radiation therapy.

**Drug response:** Erythropoietin is used therapeutically to treat anemia, particularly in patients with chronic kidney disease. However, its use has been associated with increased cardiovascular risk in some populations.

**References:**

- Subject: EPO
- Author: Koury MJ, Bondurant MC
- DOI: [10.1111/j.1749-6632.1993.tb22959.x]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1749-6632.1993.tb22959.x))

- Subject: EPO gene
- Author: Elliott S, Pham E, Macdougall IC
- DOI: [10.1038/sj.ki.5000276]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.ki.5000276))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**