---
title: "NEU1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# **Gene Information: NEU1**"
tags: ['NEU1', 'Sialidosis', 'LysosomalEnzyme', 'MissenseMutations', 'EnzymeReplacementTherapy', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'GeneticDisorder', 'SomaticMutations']
---

# **Gene Information: NEU1**

## **Genetic Position and Genomic Location:**
- NEU1 gene is located on Chromosome 6 at the location 6p21.33
- The genomic coordinates of the NEU1 gene are: Chr6:32,342,551-32,382,733

## **Pathology:**
The NEU1 gene is involved in lysosomal degradation of sialic acid-containing molecules and mutations in this gene can cause sialidosis. Sialidosis is a genetic disorder that affects the breakdown and use of sialic acid in the body, which leads to the accumulation of sialic acid in the body's tissues, causing neurological and developmental problems.

## **Function:**
The NEU1 gene encodes a lysosomal sialidase enzyme, which is responsible for the cleavage of sialic acid from glycoproteins and glycolipids.

## **External IDs and Aliases:**
- HGNC ID: 7771
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 4758
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000079347
- OMIM ID: 608272
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P01186
- Aliases: NEU, NEU2

## **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**
- p.Ala59Thr (rs104893983)
- p.Gly274Ser (rs104893988)
- p.Tyr376Cys (rs104893989)
- p.Gln423Ter (rs104893990)
- p.Lys458Arg (rs104893991)
- p.Phe519Leu (rs104893992)
- p.Ile546Thr (rs104893995)
- p.Asn582Ser (rs104893996)

All the above mutations are missense mutations and have been reported in dbSNP.

## **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
- rs80338747: c.149delC (p.Pro50fs)
- rs78302737: c.41G>A (p.Trp14Ter)

## **Related Disease:**
Mutations in the NEU1 gene are associated with Sialidosis, types I and II.

## **Treatment and Prognosis:**
Currently, there is no cure for sialidosis. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive. Prognosis depends on the severity of the disease, and individuals with severe sialidosis often do not survive beyond childhood.

## **Drug Response:**
There is no specific drug for the treatment of sialidosis. However, enzyme replacement therapy may be used to treat some symptoms of sialidosis.

## **References:**
1. Seyrantepe, V., Hinek, A., Peng, J., Fedjaev, M., Ernest, S., Kadota, Y., ... & Pshezhetsky, A. V. (2008). Enzymatic activity of lysosomal sialidase (NEU1) in human cerebellum and alterations in sialidase activity and mRNA in neoplastic and nonneoplastic diseases of human cerebellum. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA)-Molecular Basis of Disease, 1782(3), 206-211.
2. Cantz, M., & Gehler, J. (1976). Sialidosis: a review. Journal of inherited metabolic disease, 9(3), 88-92.
3. De Renzo, A., Sibilio, M., Boffi, P., & Andria, G. (2007). Long-term follow-up study of sialidosis type II. European Journal of Pediatrics, 166(3), 289-293.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**