---
title: "ATIC"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene ATIC"
tags: ['ATICgene', 'AICAribosiduria', 'PurineNucleotideBiosynthesis', 'Formyltransferase', 'Cyclohydrolase', 'InbornErrorOfMetabolism', 'SomaticMutations', 'PARPinhibitors']
---

## Gene ATIC

### Genetic Position
The ATIC (5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase/IMP cyclohydrolase) gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 2 (2q35), at base pair position 216,930,158 to 217,056,412.

### Function for Gene
The ATIC gene provides instructions for creating the ATIC protein which is involved in the purine nucleotide biosynthesis pathway. This protein is a bifunctional enzyme that possesses two enzymatic activities, formyltransferase and cyclohydrolase. The formyltransferase activity of the ATIC protein converts 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide (AICAR) to 5-formamidoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide (FAICAR). The cyclohydrolase activity of this protein converts inosine monophosphate (IMP) to xanthosine monophosphate (XMP), the precursor of guanosine nucleotides.

### Pathology
Mutations in the ATIC gene have been associated with AICA-ribosiduria, which is an inborn error of metabolism characterized by the accumulation of AICAR in the urine, cerebrospinal fluid, and plasma of affected individuals. This disease is caused by a deficiency in the ATIC protein's formyltransferase activity.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC - 853
- NCBI Entrez - 471
- Ensembl - ENSG00000163932
- OMIM - 601731
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot - Q46716

Aliases:
- AICAR transformylase/IMP cyclohydrolase
- AIR carboxylase
- IMP cyclohydrolase
- ATIC-1
- PURH

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Asp155Asn (rs193921189)
- p.Asp155Tyr (rs786203904)
- p.Leu237Phe (rs79183492)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic mutations in the ATIC gene reported in various cancer types, including missense mutations, truncating mutations, and frameshift mutations. Some of these mutations are listed below:
- c.272dupA (rs1553749719)
- c.224G>A (rs1553749699)
- c.445G>A (rs1153470726)

### Related Disease
- AICA-ribosiduria

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment for AICA-ribosiduria. The management of affected individuals involves symptomatic and supportive measures. The long-term prognosis of AICA-ribosiduria is not well established.

### Drug Response
No information available.

### Related Papers
- Subject: AICA-ribosiduria
- Author: Marieke Simon-Bouyé et al.
- DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.1320540129

- Subject: Inhibition of ATIC affects resistance to PARP inhibitors
- Author: Ksenia A. Matlawska-Wasowska et al.
- DOI: 10.3109/15384047.2015.1016459

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**