---
title: "GOLGA3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene GOLGA3 Information"
tags: ['GOLGA3', 'GeneFunction', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticPosition', 'Pathology']
---

## Gene GOLGA3 Information

### Genetic Position
The gene GOLGA3 is located on human chromosome 3q13.31.

### Pathology
Mutations in the GOLGA3 gene have been associated with several cancers, including breast cancer and gastric cancer.

### Function
The GOLGA3 gene encodes a protein called golgin A3, which is a component of the Golgi apparatus. The Golgi apparatus is responsible for modifying and sorting proteins before they are transported to their final destinations within the cell.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: HGNC:4417
- NCBI Entrez: 2763
- Ensembl: ENSG00000198269
- OMIM: 601924
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NBJ4
- Aliases:  GIANTIN, GOLIM6

### AA Mutation List with dbSNP ID
- c.2701G>A (p.Arg901His), rs2239684
- c.224T>A (p.Val75Glu), rs2271289
- c.752C>T (p.Pro251Leu), rs2239683

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs121913495
- rs147315158
- rs368329936
- rs774164359

### Related Disease
Mutations in the GOLGA3 gene have been associated with several cancers, including breast cancer and gastric cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no targeted treatment for tumors with mutations in GOLGA3. The prognosis for patients with these tumors may depend on the extent of the cancer and response to treatment.

### Drug Response
There is no information available on drug response specific to GOLGA3 mutations.

### Related Papers
- Subject: The Golgi-associated protein giantin is required for normal cilia function in zebrafish.
  - Author Name: Schramm et al.
  - DOI Link: 10.1242/jcs.210963
  
- Subject: Evaluating the variation consequences of pathogenicity of synonymous mutations in human genes.
  - Author Name: Dou et al.
  - DOI Link: 10.1186/s12864-019-6358-2

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**