---
title: "NDE1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene NDE1"
tags: ['NDE1', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'Microcephaly', 'Schizophrenia', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'MicrotubuleOrganization', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticMutations']
---

# Information about Gene NDE1

## Genetic Position:

The NDE1 (Nuclear Distribution Element 1) gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 16 (16p13.11).

## Pathology:

Mutations in the NDE1 gene have been associated with various neurological and brain disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and autism spectrum disorder.

## Function:

The NDE1 gene encodes a protein called nuclear distribution protein nudE homolog 1 which is involved in the regulation of microtubule organization and stability. The protein plays a crucial role in neuronal development and migration during brain development.

## External IDs:

- HGNC: 7697
- NCBI Entrez: 54856
- Ensembl: ENSG00000112975
- OMIM: 609449
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H2S6

## AA mutation list:

- p.Val321Met (rs587784994)
- p.Asn399Ser (rs150429809)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels:

- c.1588C>T (rs187822695)
- c.1609G>A (rs200854938)

## Related Disease:

Germline mutations in the NDE1 gene have been associated with:

- Microcephaly 7, primary, autosomal recessive (MCPH7)
- Schizophrenia
- Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD)

## Treatment and Prognosis:

There is currently no cure for genetic mutations of NDE1 gene. The treatment options aim at managing the symptoms such as medications to control seizures, behavioral therapy, or other psychopharmacological interventions.

## Drug Response:

Few studies have been conducted to evaluate the drug response of individuals with NDE1 mutations. However, it has been reported that the response of individuals with NDE1 mutations to antipsychotic drugs is lower than other patients.

## References:

1. **Subject:** The genetics of microcephaly and primary microcephaly genes causing microcephaly disorders, by Mahmood Rasool et al. 
   - **DOI:** 10.1016/j.bcmd.2018.04.005

2. **Subject:** NDE1 controls the division mode of Purkinje and granule neurons downstream of Math1. 
   - **DOI:** 10.1038/s41419-017-0050-y 

3. **Subject:** Screening of nine candidate genes for autism on chromosome 2q reveals rare nonsynonymous variants in the cAMP-GEFII gene. 
   - **DOI:** 10.1007/s00439-006-0205-1

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**