---
title: "GBA"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene: GBA"
tags: ['GBA', 'Glucocerebrosidase', 'GaucherDisease', 'Mutation', 'EnzymeReplacementTherapy', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

### Gene: GBA

**Function:** The GBA gene encodes for the enzyme glucocerebrosidase which is involved in the breakdown of a fatty substance called glucocerebroside. 

**External IDs, Genomic Location, Aliases:**
- HGNC: 4177
- NCBI Entrez: 2629
- Ensembl: ENSG00000106628
- OMIM: 606463
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P04062
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 1: 155,205,664- 155,246,673
- Aliases: GBA1, GLUC

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

| Mutations | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-----------|---------------|------------|
|N370S| Missense |rs63750967|
|L444P| Missense |rs80356722|
|V394L| Missense |rs76763715|
|84GG|Deletion|rs76763714|
|L444R|Missense|rs80356723| 

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

| Mutations | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-----------|---------------|------------|
| T369M | Missense |rs111033604|
| E326K | Missense | rs906876865|
| T369S | Missense | rs1057518950|
| L483P | Missense | rs768007161|

**Related Disease:** Mutations in the GBA gene can cause Gaucher disease which is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by the buildup of glucocerebroside in various organs, leading to anemia, low platelets, liver and spleen enlargement, and bone disease.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** Treatment options for Gaucher disease include enzyme replacement therapy and substrate reduction therapy. Since GBA mutations are associated with Parkinson's disease, clinical trials are underway to assess the efficacy of GBA modifying agents in slowing the progression of Parkinson's disease.

**Drug Response:** Several drugs such as imiglucerase, velaglucerase alfa, and taliglucerase alfa are used as the mainstay of treatment for Gaucher Disease.

**References:**
1. Grabowski, G. A. (2017). Gaucher disease and other storage disorders. Hematology/oncology clinics of North America, 31(5), 863-880.
2. Sidransky, E. (2012). Gaucher disease: complexity in a “simple” disorder. Molecular genetics and metabolism, 105(3), 410-413.
3. Gan-Or, Z., & Alcalay, R. N. (2015). Which patients with Parkinson's disease should be screened for glucocerebrosidase mutations?. Movement Disorders, 30(6), 769-773.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**