---
title: "TFEB"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Name: TFEB"
tags: ['TFEB', 'LysosomalBiogenesis', 'Autophagy', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorders', 'Cancer', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'Trehalose', 'Rapamycin']
---

# Gene Name: TFEB

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 6
- Location: 6p21.1

## Pathology
TFEB is associated with various pathological conditions, including lysosomal storage diseases, neurodegenerative disorders, and cancer.

## Function
TFEB is a transcription factor that plays a crucial role in regulating the lysosomal biogenesis and autophagy process. It orchestrates gene expression for lysosomal genes and stress-induced autophagy genes when the lysosomal function is compromised. 

## External IDs and Genomic Location/Aliases
- HGNC ID: 11766
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 7942
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000118809
- OMIM ID: 602421
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P19484
- Genomic Location: Chr6:32,930,855-32,948,400 
- Aliases: BHLHE35, TCFEB 

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.R221W: Missense variant dbSNP ID (rs1053024)
- p.G63E: Missense variant dbSNP ID (rs1064792539)
- p.P330L: Missense variant dbSNP ID (rs1131691747)
- p.R399P: Missense variant dbSNP ID (rs201304837)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.872C>T: Missense variant, dbSNP ID (rs5607257164)
- c.1412G>A: Missense variant, dbSNP ID (rs7568284699)
- c.955G>T: Missense variant, dbSNP ID (rs7536312487)
- c.760A>G: Missense variant, dbSNP ID (rs1913553118)

## Related Disease
TFEB mutations and dysregulation have been associated with various diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and lysosomal storage diseases.

## Treatment and Prognosis
TFEB is a potential therapeutic target for neurodegenerative disorders and lysosomal storage diseases. Modulation of TFEB activity using drugs like trehalose and rapamycin has shown promising results in preclinical studies. Additionally, the overexpression of TFEB has been linked to favorable prognosis in some cancer types.

## Drug Response 
Some drugs, including trehalose and rapamycin, have been shown to modulate TFEB activity and potential therapeutic targets for lysosomal storage diseases and neurodegenerative disorders.

## References
- Sardiello, M., Palmieri, M., di Ronza, A., Medina, D. L., Valenza, M., Gennarino, V. A., ... & Ballabio, A. (2009). A gene network regulating lysosomal biogenesis and function. Science, 325(5939), 473-477.
- Settembre, C., Ballabio, A., & TFEB. (2011). A master regulator for lysosomal maturation and autophagy. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA)-Molecular Cell Research, 1819(5), 507-513.
- Perera, N. D., Sheean, R. K., Lau, C. L., Shin, Y. S., Beart, P. M., & Horne, M. K. (2018). Current advancements in activating TFEB as a possible therapeutic target for promoting autophagy. Autophagy, 14(8), 1247-1257.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**