---
title: "TBCE"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: TBCE"
tags: ['TBCE', 'microtubules', 'PELD', 'SPG45', 'neurodegenerative', 'geneticmutation', 'cytoskeleton', 'encephalopathy']
---

## Gene: TBCE

### Function for gene
TBCE (Tubulin-specific chaperone E) is a protein coding gene that is involved in the folding and assembly of α and β-tubulin into functional microtubules, plays a crucial role in maintaining the cytoskeletal architecture, especially in neurons, and regulates the stability of the mitotic spindle microtubules during cell division.

### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- Gene ID: 6905
- Genomic location: Chromosome 1: 1,539,501-1,610,465
- Other aliases: COP-G2, EOPA, KCS2, TBCE1, VRSED

### External sites
- HGNC: 11874
- NCBI Entrez : 6905
- Ensembl: ENSG00000108107
- OMIM: 604934
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q15813

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Ala287Val (missense), rs142734269
- p.Ala274Val (missense), rs755382796
- p.Pro47Leu (missense), rs199720588

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for the TBCE gene.

### Related disease
Mutations in the TBCE gene have been associated with Progressive encephalopathy, with or without lipodystrophy (PELD) and Spastic paraplegia-45 (SPG45). 

### Treatment and prognosis
There is currently no cure for PELD and SPG45, and treatment is focused on managing symptoms and supportive care. Individuals with these conditions have a reduced lifespan, though this can vary greatly depending on the severity of the symptoms. 

### Drug response
There is currently no specific drug available for PELD and SPG45.

### Related papers
- Subject: Clinical and genetic spectrum of AMPD2-related pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 9 (PCH9) in four families and review of the literature. 
- Author name: Salomons GS, et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10048-019-00575-0)

- Subject: TBCE mutations cause early-onset progressive encephalopathy with distal spinal muscular atrophy
- Author name: Bonnard C, et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/brain/awt119)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**