---
title: "VKORC1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene VKORC1"
tags: ['VKORC1', 'AnticoagulantResistance', 'Warfarin', 'VitaminKCycle', 'PersonalizedMedicine', 'Thrombosis', 'GeneticMutation', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene VKORC1

- **Function:** The VKORC1 (Vitamin K epOxide Reductase Complex 1) gene encodes an enzyme that is involved in the vitamin K cycle, which is essential for the activation of clotting factors in the blood. The enzyme reduces vitamin K epoxide to vitamin K hydroquinone, which is necessary for the carboxylation of clotting factors in the liver.

- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**

   - HGNC: 12678
   - NCBI Entrez: 79001
   - Ensembl: ENSG00000116668
   - OMIM: 608547
   - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BQB6

    VKORC1 is located on chromosome 16 at position 16p11.2 

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

    - p.Glu16Lys (rs7200749)
    - p.Asn29Ser (rs61752561)
    - p.Cys43Ser (rs7294)
    - p.Cys51Tyr (rs61753392)
    - p.Arg58Leu (rs61749900)

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

    There are several somatic mutations identified in the VKORC1 gene, but there are no dbSNP IDs available for them.

- **Related Disease:** Mutations in the VKORC1 gene have been associated with resistance to anticoagulant drugs such as warfarin. 

- **Treatment and prognosis:** Patients carrying VKORC1 mutations may require alternative anticoagulant therapies or personalized dosing of warfarin to maximize its therapeutic benefits. 

- **Drug response:** VKORC1 mutations have been shown to affect the response to warfarin, which is a commonly used anticoagulant drug. Individuals with certain VKORC1 genotypes may require lower or higher doses of warfarin. 

- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**

    - Rost S, Fregin A, Ivaskevicius V, Conzelmann E, Hortnagel K, Pelz HJ, Lappegard K, Seifried E, Scharrer I, Tuddenham EG, Yu C, Wang W, et al. Mutations in VKORC1 cause warfarin resistance and multiple coagulation factor deficiency type 2. Nature. 2004 Sep 2; 427(6974):537-41. doi: 10.1038/nature02214.
    - Watzka M, Geisen C, Bevans CG, Sittinger K, Spohn G, Rost S, Seifried E, Muller CR. Thirteen novel VKORC1 mutations associated with oral anticoagulant resistance: insights into improved patient diagnosis and treatment. J Thromb Haemost. 2011 May;9(5):109-18. doi: 10.1111/j.1538-7836.2011.04190.x.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**