---
title: "TALDO1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: TALDO1"
tags: ['TALDO1', 'GeneticPosition', 'Pathology', 'PentosePhosphatePathway', 'HemolyticAnemia', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'SomaticMutations', 'NoKnownDrugResponse']
---

# Gene: TALDO1
**Genetic Position:** Chr.11q23.1
**Pathology:** TALDO1 deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that causes hemolytic anemia, generally of the nonspherocytic type. It occurs due to a mutation in the TALDO1 gene which affects the production of enzymes in the pentose phosphate pathway, ultimately leading to hemolysis.
**Function:** The TALDO1 gene encodes for the protein transaldolase, an enzyme that plays a crucial role in the pentose phosphate pathway, a metabolic pathway concerned with the production of energy and reducing agents for biosynthesis. This pathway is also important for the detoxification of reactive oxygen species.
**External IDs:** 
- HGNC: HGNC:11532
- NCBI Entrez: 6889
- Ensembl: ENSG00000186002
- OMIM: 602063 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P37837 

**AA Mutation List:** 
There are many different AA mutations found in the TALDO1 gene, including:
- p.Arg192Gln (rs137852904)
- p.Leu159Pro (rs137852905)
- p.Asp8His (rs137852906)
- p.Ser62Phe (rs137852907)

**Somatic SNVs/InDels:** 
There are many different somatic SNVs/InDels found in the TALDO1 gene, including:
- p.Cys59Ter (rs398123039)
- p.Ile114Ser (rs1057525230)
- c.590_592delGGG (rs1057525231)

**Related Disease:** 
TALDO1 deficiency can cause hemolytic anemia, typically of the nonspherocytic type. Symptoms include fatigue, pale skin, shortness of breath, and jaundice.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** 
Treatment for TALDO1 deficiency is mainly supportive, focusing on managing the symptoms of anemia. There is no known cure for the disorder. The long-term outlook for patients with TALDO1 deficiency is generally poor, as many patients may require blood transfusions or other invasive or intensive medical interventions regularly.

**Drug Response:** 
There is currently no known drug response specific to TALDO1 deficiency.

**References:** 
- Rassi, D. M. and Vaxman, F. (2018). “Transaldolase (TAL) Deficiency.” In: StatPearls, Treasure Island, FL.
- NCBI Gene: TALDO1 transcription factor coding gene.
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: TALDO_HUMAN.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**