---
title: "CACNA1G"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Analysis of Gene CACNA1G "
tags: ['GeneCACNA1G', 'CalciumChannel', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'MissenseMutation', 'Epilepsy', 'Autism', 'Migraine', 'TreatmentOptions']
---

# Analysis of Gene CACNA1G 

## Genetic Information
- Gene: CACNA1G
- Genomic location: Chromosome 17, region q21.33
- Alias: CACNL1A3, Cav3.1

## Function for Gene
- CACNA1G encodes a voltage-gated calcium channel subunit that regulates various physiological processes such as neurotransmitter release, muscle contraction, and gene expression. 
- This gene is specifically expressed in neurons, and its dysfunction has been associated with the pathogenesis of neurological disorders.

## External IDs and Sites

- HGNC: 1398
- NCBI Entrez: 8913
- Ensembl: ENSG00000141510
- OMIM: 600682
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q969E4 

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type  |dbSNP ID|
|-----------|--------------|--------|
|Arg36Cys   |Missense      |rs142601565|
|Val947Met  |Missense      |rs142697304|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

There are currently no somatic mutations reported in CACNA1G for any disease.

## Related Disease

Mutations in CACNA1G have been associated with neurological disorders such as epilepsy, autism, and migraine.

## Treatment and Prognosis

The treatment and prognosis for patients with CACNA1G mutations vary depending on the specific disorder and severity of symptoms. Treatment options may include medications to manage seizures or migraines and therapies to address developmental delays in patients with autism.

## Drug Response

There is limited information available on drug response in patients with CACNA1G mutations.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Rare CACNA1G variants associated with epileptic encephalopathy alter calcium channel function
  - Author Name: Orhan et al.
  - DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-35870-5
  
- Subject: CACNA1G variants cause a neurodevelopmental disorder including intellectual disability and epilepsy
  - Author Name: Jackman et al.
  - DOI: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2016-104418

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**