---
title: "AK2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene AK2"
tags: ['AK2gene', 'mitochondrialenzyme', 'adenylatekinase', 'geneticmutations', 'hemolyticanemia', 'retinadystrophy', 'sensorineuralhearingloss', 'geneticdiseases']
---

### Gene AK2

**Genetic position and genomic location**

The AK2 gene is located on chromosome 1 at the location 1p34.1. The AK2 gene is composed of 8 exons and spans about 11 kb on the genomic DNA.

**Function for gene**

The AK2 gene encodes for adenylate kinase 2 which is a mitochondrial enzyme responsible for catalyzing the transfer of phosphate groups from ATP to AMP. This enzyme plays crucial roles in mitochondrial energy production and regulation of cell proliferation. 

**External IDs for gene and genomic location, aliases**

- HGNC: 339
- NCBI Entrez: 203
- Ensembl: ENSG00000143833
- OMIM: 103020
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P54819

Aliases: Adenylate kinase 2, Adenylate kinase isoenzyme 2, AK 2, ATP-AMP transphosphorylase, EC 2.7.4.3

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**

There are several amino acid (AA) mutations associated with AK2 gene. Some of them are:
- Val108Ala (rs706832)
- Gly228Arg (rs1803157)
- Ser261Phe (rs198352)
- Gly314Val (rs2230554)
- Gly360Ala (rs200819701)

All the mutations are missense mutations.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**

Some of the somatic SNVs/InDels with their dbSNP IDs associated with the AK2 gene are:

|dbSNP ID|Mutation type|
|--------|-------------|
|rs148521097|SNV|
|rs766045202|InDel|
|rs202157996|SNV|
|rs760995935|InDel|

**Related disease**

The mutations in the AK2 gene are associated with various diseases. Some of the diseases are:
- Hemolytic anemia due to adenylate kinase deficiency (OMIM: 612631)
- Retina dystrophy, optic atrophy, and sensorineural hearing loss (OMIM: 617177)
- Generalized reticular Icthyosis (OMIM: 607204)

**Treatment and prognosis**

There is no specific treatment for AK2 gene mutations leading to diseases. However, patients with hemolytic anemia due to adenylate kinase deficiency may require regular blood transfusions. The prognosis varies depending on the type and severity of the disease.

**Drug response**

There is no available information on drug response associated with AK2 gene mutations.

---

#### References

1. Aledort, L. M. et al. (1972). Adenylate kinase deficiency in human erythrocytes. A new enzymopathy. Journal of Clinical Investigation, 51(7): 2199–2210. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1172/JCI107040)

2. Li H, et al. (2015). AK2 gene mutation associated with reticular dysgenesis. Zhonghua Er Ke Za Zhi, 53(4): 274-9. PMID: 25975626. 

3. University of Utah Health Sciences. (2021). AK2 gene. GHR - Genetics Home Reference. Retrieved from: [Click](https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/AK2)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**