---
title: "CDY1"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information on CDY1"
tags: ['CDY1', 'maleinfertility', 'chromatinremodeling', 'generegulation', 'geneticmutation', 'reproductivetechnologies', 'geneticanalysis', 'geneticinformation']
---

## Gene Information on CDY1
### Pathology
CDY1 is a gene located on the Y chromosome that encodes for chromodomain protein Y1, which plays a role in the regulation of gene expression and chromatin remodeling. Mutations in this gene have been linked to male infertility.

### Function
The CDY1 gene codes for a protein involved in chromatin remodeling, which affects gene expression and regulation.

### External IDs and Genomic Location / Aliases
- External IDs: HGNC:1781, NCBI Entrez:30837, Ensembl:ENSG00000229437, OMIM:400015, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:Q9H2Q3
- Genomic Location: Yq11.223
- Aliases: CDY, CDY1b, CDY1c, CDY1d

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are no reports of mutations affecting the coding sequence of CDY1.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic SNVs or InDels in CDY1.

### Related Disease
Mutations in this gene have been associated with male infertility.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no specific treatment for infertility caused by mutations in CDY1. Prognosis depends on the severity of the infertility and the individual's response to assisted reproductive technologies.

### Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response associated with mutations in CDY1.

### Related Papers
- Name: Mutations in the Y-linked chromodomain protein, CDY1, cause infertility in humans
  - Authors: Sun J, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1038/ng1101-344
- Name: A recurrent deletion of the Y-chromosome involving the CDY1 and DAZ genes in infertile men
  - Authors: Tiepolo L, Zuffardi O
  - DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.1320530318

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**