---
title: "ATP7A"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene ATP7A"
tags: ['ATP7A', 'CopperTransport', 'MenkesDisease', 'OccipitalHornSyndrome', 'GeneticDisorders', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'CopperSupplements']
---

# Information on Gene ATP7A

## Genomic Location and External IDs

The ATP7A gene is located on the X chromosome at position Xq21.1. Its external IDs include:

- HGNC: 787
- NCBI Entrez: 538
- Ensembl: ENSG00000049130
- OMIM: 300011
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q04656

Aliases for ATP7A include:

- MNK
- Menkes disease-associated protein
- Truncated Menkes disease protein

## Function of the Gene

The ATP7A gene encodes a protein called copper-transporting ATPase 1 (Cu-ATPase). This protein is responsible for transporting copper ions out of cells. It plays a crucial role in copper homeostasis, which is essential for many cellular processes. Mutations in the ATP7A gene can lead to copper deficiency, which can cause various health problems.

## Mutations and Related Diseases

The ATP7A gene is associated with Menkes disease and occipital horn syndrome, which are both rare genetic disorders. Menkes disease is caused by mutations that result in a non-functional Cu-ATPase protein. Individuals with Menkes disease have low levels of copper in their blood and tissues, which can cause developmental delays, seizures, and other neurological problems. Occipital horn syndrome is a milder form of Menkes disease with less severe symptoms.

There are many mutations reported in the ATP7A gene. Some of the common ones include:

- p.Ala1363Thr (rs104894008)
- p.Arg778Leu (rs104894009)
- p.Arg952Gln (rs104894010)
- p.Asp1027Glu (rs104894012)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

There are no reported somatic SNVs/Indels for the ATP7A gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no cure for Menkes disease or occipital horn syndrome. Treatment focuses on managing symptoms and preventing complications. Copper injections and dietary supplements can be used to increase copper levels in the body. However, the earlier the condition is diagnosed and treated, the better the outcomes.

## Drug Response

There are no specific drugs available for the treatment of Menkes disease or occipital horn syndrome. However, therapies such as copper histidine and copper chloride administration have been used to elevate copper levels in the body.

## Related Papers

- Kaler, S. G. (2011). ATP7A-related copper transport diseases—emerging concepts and future trends. Nature Reviews Neurology, 7(1), 15-29. DOI: 10.1038/nrneurol.2010.180
- Tümer, Z., Zeybek, C. A., & Çetinkaya, D. U. (2016). Menkes disease: Importance of early diagnosis with clinical and molecular genetics review. Journal of pediatric genetics, 5(1), 51-57. DOI: 10.3233/PGE-15114

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**