---
title: "GRHPR"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['GRHPR', 'GeneticInformation', 'DualFunctionEnzyme', 'PrimaryHyperoxaluriaType2', 'MissenseMutation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

## Gene Information

**Gene Name:** GRHPR

**Function:** This gene encodes glyoxylate reductase/hydroxypyruvate reductase, a dual-function enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of glyoxylate to glycolate and the conversion of D-glycerate to 3-hydroxyretroate. These reactions play a critical role in the metabolism of glycine and serine.

**External IDs and Genomic Location:**

- HGNC: 4564
- NCBI Entrez: 9381
- Ensembl: ENSG00000161231
- OMIM: 604296
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UBQ7

**Aliases:** HPRP, GR, PPH

## Mutations

**AA Mutation List:**

- p.Glu148Asp
- p.Arg276Cys

**Mutation Type:** Missense

**dbSNP ID:**

- rs121918056
- rs199787021

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

**dbSNP ID:**

- rs1057518361
- rs766159389

## Related Diseases

Pathogenic mutations in the GRHPR gene have been linked to primary hyperoxaluria type *2* (PH2), which is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that leads to nephrolithiasis, renal failure, and systemic oxalosis.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no specific cure for PH2, and the treatment aims to manage the symptoms. In severe cases, kidney transplantation may be considered.

## Drug Response

There is no specific approved drug for PH2. However, some therapies are currently under investigation, including pyridoxine, which has shown some efficacy in treating a subset of patients with PH2.

## Related Papers

- Author Name: Monico CG, Rossetti S, Belostotsky R, Cogal AG, Herges RM, Seide BM, Olson JB, Bergstrahl EJ, Williams HJ, Haley WE, Frishberg Y, Milliner DS.
  - Paper Title: Primary hyperoxaluria type 1: improvements in outcomes since 1994.
  - DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2014.06.020
  
- Author Name: Belostotsky R, Seboun E, Idelson GH, Milliner DS, Becker-Cohen R, Rinat C, Monico CG, Feinstein S, Ben-Shalom E, Magen D, Weissman I, Charon C, Frishberg Y.
  - Paper Title: Oral glycerol therapy in two siblings with primary hyperoxaluria type II: normalization of glycolate oxidation and plasma glycerol levels.
  - DOI: 10.1038/gim.2009.69

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**