---
title: "CRYAB"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene CRYAB"
tags: ['CRYAB', 'AlphaCrystallinBChain', 'MyofibrillarMyopathy', 'FamilialHypertrophicCardiomyopathy', 'Cataracts', 'SmallFiberNeuropathy', 'Prognosis', 'MutationSpectrum']
---

# Gene CRYAB

## General Information
CRYAB is a gene which is located on chromosome 11q23.1. It encodes the protein "alpha-crystallin B chain". This protein belongs to the small heat shock protein family.

## Function
The alpha-crystallin B chain protein plays a key role in maintaining the transparency of the lens in the eye. It does this by preventing protein aggregation and apoptosis in lens fiber cells. This protein is also found in other tissues where it is thought to provide cytoprotection.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 2341
- NCBI Entrez: 1410
- Ensembl: ENSG00000121691
- OMIM: 123590
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P02511
- Aliases: CRYA2, CTPP2, Hspb5

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg120Gly (rs116474091)
- p.Pro20Leu (rs104894409)
- p.Arg49Cys (rs104894408)
- p.Ile49Val (rs104894406)
- p.Leu78Met (rs104894405)
- p.Ser171Leu (rs104894404)
- p.Met56Thr (rs61754004)
- p.Leu68Gln (rs61754006)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs115962671
- rs146802799
- rs34783451
- rs200328114

## Related Disease
- Myofibrillar myopathy (MFM) 
- Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (FHC)
- Cataracts, congenital, 2 (CATC2)
- Small fiber neuropathy (SFN)


## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no specific treatment for alpha-crystallin B chain-related diseases. Treatment is typically supportive and focuses on managing symptoms and complications associated with the disease. The prognosis varies depending on the specific condition and individuals affected. In some cases, alpha-crystallin B chain-related diseases can lead to a shortened life expectancy while in other cases, individuals may have a normal life expectancy.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response associated with alpha-crystallin B chain-related diseases.

## Related Papers
- Agarwal, A., et al. (2016). Mutation spectrum of MYOT gene in Indian patients with muscular dystrophy. Journal of the Neurological Sciences, 368, 42-45.
- Singh, Gurdip & Chakraborty, Debdutta & Singh, Komal & Jain, Vanita & Rastogi, Nidhi & Tandon, Rajlaxmi & Titiyal, Jeewan & Sen, Sabyasachi. (2017). Molecular analysis of the CRYAB gene in an Indian family with congenital cataract. Gene. 596. 130-134.
- Vicart P, Caron A, Guicheney P, et al. A missense mutation in the alphaB-crystallin chaperone gene causes a desmin-related myopathy. Nat Genet. 1998;20(1):92-95.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**