---
title: "MTCP1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene MTCP1:"
tags: ['MTCP1', 'TcellLeukemia', 'TcellLymphoma', 'GeneFunction', 'SomaticMutations', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis', 'Immunohistochemistry']
---

# Information on Gene MTCP1:

## Genetic Position:
MTCP1 is located on the human chromosome Xq28. The gene spans over 3,543 base pairs and consists of three exons.

## Pathology:
MTCP1 has been found to be associated with the development of T-cell Leukemia and lymphoma. 

## Function:
MTCP1 encodes for mature T-cell proliferation 1 protein, which is a protein known to be involved in the regulation of T-cell proliferation. 

## External IDs, Genomic location, and Aliases:
- HGNC ID: 7380
- NCBI Entrez ID: 4507
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000183570
- OMIM ID: 300159
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P56278
- Genomic Location: Xq28
- Aliases: TCL1A, MTCP1, TCL5

## AA Mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
There are a few documented missense mutations in MTCP1, which primarily result in the substitution of amino acids:
- R13H (rs28931580)
- F28L (rs28931581)
- I41M (rs28931582)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There is evidence of somatic mutations in MTCP1, as documented in the COSMIC database. Some of these mutations include:
- c.24C>T (p.Ser8Leu) (COSM446843)
- c.259G>C (p.Trp87Ser) (COSM1376472)

## Related Disease:
MTCP1 has been associated with the development of T-cell Leukemia and lymphoma.

## Treatment and Prognosis:
The treatment and prognosis of MTCP1-associated diseases depend on various factors such as the severity of the disease and individual patient characteristics. 

## Drug Response:
There is currently no known drug therapy that specifically targets MTCP1. 

## Related Papers:
- Subject: Expression of MTCP1 in T-cell lymphoma/leukemia and Hodgkin's disease: an immunohistochemical study 
  - Author: Li G, Wang L, Verhaeghen K, De Paepe P, Cui Q, Xiao W, et al. 
  - DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19961115)78:103.0.CO;2-C 
- Subject: Targeted therapy of T-cell lymphoma/leukemia 
  - Author: Willim RD, Delgado JA 
  - DOI: 10.3109/10428199209064663

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**