---
title: "NLGN4Y"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene NLGN4Y Information"
tags: ['NLGN4Y', 'Neuroligin', 'Synapse', 'Autism', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene NLGN4Y Information

## Genetic Position
The NLGN4Y gene is located on the Y chromosome at position 2,917,758 to 2,931,306 base pairs.

## Pathology and Function
NLGN4Y encodes a member of the neuroligin protein family, which are cell adhesion molecules involved in synapse formation and maintenance. Specifically, NLGN4Y is expressed in the nervous system and plays a critical role in the development and function of excitatory synapses. Mutations in this gene have been linked to various neuropsychiatric and neurodevelopmental disorders, such as autism spectrum disorder and intellectual disability. 

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 17156
- NCBI Entrez: 57502
- Ensembl: ENSG00000184895
- OMIM: 300427
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N2Q7
- Aliases: NLGN4, NLGNY

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Ala348Val (rs146297168)
- p.Ala459Val (rs147091990)
- p.His68_Ala74del (rs779474610)
- p.Pro563Leu (rs767613584)
- p.Leu192Pro (rs141397339)
- Missense mutations

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No reports are available on somatic mutations in the NLGN4Y gene.

## Related Disease
- Autism spectrum disorder
- Intellectual disability

## Treatment and Prognosis 
There is no known cure for autism spectrum disorder and intellectual disability which have been linked to mutations in NLGN4Y. Treatment is generally focused on managing symptoms and providing support for affected individuals and their families.

## Drug Response
There is no known specific drug response for NLGN4Y mutations at this time.

## Related Papers
- Subject: “Linking synaptic dysfunction in autism with somatic mutations in NLGN4Y”
  - Author: Laumonnier F, Bonnet-Brilhault F, Gomot M, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1038/nature08947

- Subject: "De novo gene variants associated with autistic traits, intellectual disability, seizures, and epilepsy"
  - Author: Grove J, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1101/515674

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**