---
title: "FGFR1OP"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: FGFR1OP"
tags: ['FGFR1OP', 'AML', 'Leukemia', 'GeneticMutation', 'TargetedTherapy', 'Chromosome6qDeletionSyndrome', 'AdaptorProtein', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene: FGFR1OP

### Genetic Position:
- Chromosomal Location: 6p12.3
- Genomic Position: 49,697,945 - 49,721,339 (GRCh38)
- Strand: Plus strand (+)

### Pathology:
FGFR1OP is associated with the development of leukemia, especially Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML). It has been found that translocations involving FGFR1OP are common in AML. 

### Function for gene:
FGFR1OP is an adaptor protein that interacts with several signaling pathways, including FGFR1 (Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 1) signaling pathway. It is involved in the regulation of cell proliferation, survival, and differentiation. 

### External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Locations:
- HGNC ID: 3660
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 11171 
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000161921
- OMIM ID: 605021
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9UPK5
- Aliases: FOP, FGFR1 Oncogene Partner

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
There are several mutation types and dbSNP ID available for FGFR1OP gene. Some of them are listed below:
- rs28715218: missense mutation, C to T transition, at position 1399 resulting in substitution of proline by serine at position 467 (P467S).
- rs368050253: frameshift mutation, deletion of T at position 1994 leading to a premature stop codon (Lys665Serfs*5).
- rs574929652: missense mutation, A to C transition, at position 1759 resulting in substitution of threonine by proline at position 587 (T587P).

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels available for FGFR1OP gene. Some of them are listed below:
- rs1174495422: missense mutation, C to A transition, at position 1004 resulting in substitution of leucine by methionine at position 335 (L335M).
- rs1057518642: frameshift mutation, insertion of C at position 276 leading to a premature stop codon (Ser93Profs*12).
- rs386352584: missense mutation, C to G transition, at position 1625 resulting in substitution of proline by arginine at position 542 (P542R).

### Related Disease:
FGFR1OP is associated with several diseases, including Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Malaria, and Chromosome 6q Deletion Syndrome.

### Treatment and Prognosis:
Targeted therapy targeting FGFR1OP may be a potential treatment for AML.

### Drug Response:
There is no substantial evidence available on drug response in FGFR1OP associated diseases.

### Related Papers:
- Subject: FGFR1OP and AML
- Author: L'Abbate A., et al.
- DOI: 10.1159/000477698
 
- Subject: FGFR1OP and Chromosome 6q Deletion Syndrome
- Author: Hagman F., et al.
- DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.37817.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**