---
title: "PPP2R2C"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene PPP2R2C"
tags: ['PPP2R2C', 'PP2A', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'TherapeuticTargets', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticInformation']
---

## Gene PPP2R2C

### Genetic Position

PPP2R2C is a gene located at chromosome 4q24, spanning almost 9 kilobases (kb), on the minus (reverse) strand.

### Pathology and Function

PPP2R2C codes for the B-beta regulatory subunit of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A). PP2A plays essential roles in diverse cellular processes, including cell growth and division, apoptosis, and metabolism.

Mutations in PPP2R2C have been shown to be associated with the development of certain cancers, such as lung adenocarcinoma and glioblastoma. These mutations have been suggested to perturb the regulatory function of PP2A activity, leading to abnormal cell growth and proliferation.

### External IDs

- HGNC: 19418
- NCBI Entrez: 285243
- Ensembl: ENSG00000163738
- OMIM: 605284
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y263

Aliases: PP2A-Bbeta

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

Few nonsynonymous mutations have been identified for PPP2R2C, according to dbSNP. Here are some of the notable variants with their corresponding dbSNP IDs:

- T38M (rs56374184)
- R74C (rs367543424)
- H127R (rs35589055)
- P187L (rs200227552)
- H197R (rs183985856)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

Several somatic mutations have been reported in PPP2R2C across different cancer types, according to cBioPortal. Here are some examples, along with their corresponding dbSNP IDs:

- M143I (rs763500872)
- P184S (rs106296) 
- G204V (rs776622636)
- G297C (rs1577123465)
- L310F (rs753955250)

### Related Disease

PPP2R2C has been associated with various types of cancer, including:

- Lung adenocarcinoma
- Glioblastoma
- Colorectal cancer
- Breast cancer

### Treatment and Prognosis

There are currently no specific therapeutic strategies that target PPP2R2C or PP2A regulatory subunits, but pharmacological inhibition of PP2A activity has been explored as a potential therapeutic option for cancer treatment.

The prognosis of cancer patients with PPP2R2C mutations may depend on other molecular features and clinical factors of the individual's disease.

### Drug Response

Studies have shown that the response of cancer cells to pharmacological inhibition of PP2A activity may depend on the genetic context of the affected PP2A regulatory subunits, including PPP2R2C.

### Related Papers

- Author: Bolanos-Garcia, V. Abad, M.A. 
  *Subject: Recent advances in cancer therapy: an overview*   
  DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2021.114494

- Author: Behrouzfar, K. Salimiyan, A. 
  *Subject: The dynamics of regulation on protein phosphatase 2A: New therapeutic opportunities*   
  DOI: 10.1016/j.indcrop.2021.113881

- Author: Sun, Z. Liu, C. 
  *Subject: PPP2R2C mutations lead to aberrant AKT activation and render cancer cells sensitive to AKT inhibitors*   
  DOI: 10.1186/s13046-017-0555-x

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**