---
title: "GFAP"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# GFAP Gene Information"
tags: ['GFAP', 'Astrocytes', 'Neurodegeneration', 'GeneticDisorders', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Neuroinflammation', 'BrainFunction']
---

# GFAP Gene Information

## Overview
GFAP (Glial fibrillary acidic protein) is a gene that provides instructions for making a protein called glial fibrillary acidic protein. This protein is mainly found in astrocytes, which are star-shaped cells that support nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. GFAP is located on chromosome 17, and mutations in this gene are associated with several diseases.

## Function
The GFAP protein is a key structural component of astrocytes and is involved in providing support and structure to nerve cells. It helps to maintain the shape and integrity of astrocytes, which play a critical role in regulating the production and flow of cerebrospinal fluid. Mutations in GFAP can lead to changes in the shape and function of astrocytes, which can cause neuronal dysfunction.

## External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs: HGNC:4322, NCBI Gene:2670, Ensembl:ENSG00000103316
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 17
- Aliases: CSPG5, FLJ45484, FLJ46019, FLJ46993, GFAP-delta

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- R82H - Missense - rs104894238
- R239C - Missense - rs121908813
- R416W - Missense - rs121908814
- R416Q - Missense - rs587784104
- D451E - Missense - rs121908816

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.907+69A>G - rs121908864
- c.410A>G - rs121908811
- c.731G>A - rs765854954

## Related Diseases
- Alexander Disease
- Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy
- Multiple sclerosis
- Alzheimer's disease

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for genetic disorders caused by mutations in GFAP. Treatment usually involves managing symptoms and providing supportive care. The prognosis can vary depending on the specific disease and severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response
There are currently no drugs available to treat the genetic disorders associated with GFAP mutations. However, some drugs may be used to manage symptoms, such as anti-inflammatory medications for brain inflammation and anti-epileptic drugs for seizures.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Alexander disease
  - Author: Messing, A.
  - DOI: 10.3390/cells8030237
- Subject: GFAP mutations and neurodegeneration
  - Author: Middeldorp, J.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.neuint.2019.104547
- Subject: Role of GFAP in neuroinflammation
  - Author: Liddelow, S.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2017.05.042

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**