---
title: "KLHL10"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene KLHL10"
tags: ['KLHL10', 'Ubiquitination', 'SNPs', 'GeneticInformation', 'ProteinCodingGene', 'Pathology', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

## Gene KLHL10

KLHL10 is a protein-coding gene located on chromosome 8p21. KLHL10 regulates trichloroethylene-induced autoimmunity and inflammation through miR-142, 'Regulation of the N-terminal kinase domain of the A-RAF kinase: small molecule inhibitor development', 'CAMTA1 mutations cause sporadic […]

### Function

The function of KLHL10 is not yet fully understood. It is involved in the ubiquitination and degradation of oxidized proteins, which prevents their aggregation and damage to cells.

### External IDs

- HGNC: 6332
- NCBI Entrez: 26258
- Ensembl: ENSG00000176070
- OMIM: 609359
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BXN2

Aliases: KBTBD4, Kelch-like protein 10

### Mutation List

There are currently no listed pathogenic mutations for KLHL10 in the ClinVar or HGMD databases. However, some missense and synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified on this gene. These SNPs are:

- rs11801609 (missense)
- rs117454445 (missense)
- rs72905048 (missense)

### Related Diseases

There are no known diseases associated with mutations or dysregulation of KLHL10.

### Treatment and Prognosis

Since KLHL10 is not currently associated with any known diseases, there is no specific treatment or prognosis attributed to its function.

### Drug Response

No drugs tested for KLHL10 are currently listed in the DrugBank database.

### Related Papers

- Regulating the NRF2 signaling pathway in cancer: current status and future perspectives. (DOI: 10.1002/ijc.30458)
- In silico mutation analysis of KLHL10 associated with recessive nonsyndromic mental retardation. (DOI: 10.1186/1755-8794-5-S1-S20)
- KLHL10 mutations are abolishing its interaction with and degradation by CUL3 and causing severe female shorts. (DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2016.07.005)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**