---
title: "SGK1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SGK1 Information"
tags: ['SGK1', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticVariations', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'DrugResponse', 'CancerTreatment', 'DiabetesManagement']
---

# Gene SGK1 Information

## Genetic Position and Pathology
- **Gene**: SGK1
- **Chromosome Location**: Chromosome 6 (6q22.31)
- **Pathology**: SGK1 has been linked to various pathologies such as diabetes, cancer, and neurological disorders.

## Function
SGK1 (Serum/glucocorticoid-regulated kinase 1) gene encodes a protein kinase involved in the regulation of several functions such as ion transport, cell survival, adhesion, and migration. SGK1 plays a role in insulin signaling and glucose metabolism, and it is suggested to be a therapeutic target for diabetes mellitus treatment.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Links
- **HGNC ID**: 10846
- **NCBI Entrez**: 6446
- **Ensembl ID**: ENSG00000135829
- **OMIM ID**: 602290
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID**: O00141
- **Aliases**: SGK, SGK1B, SGK1C

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several AA mutations and variations associated with the SGK1 gene. Below are a few examples with their mutation types and dbSNP ID:
- Val253Ile (Missense variant; rs4319861)
- Pro360Leu (Missense variant; rs11555401)
- Ala255Val (Missense variant; rs11625492)
- Ala128Val (Missense variant; rs16930815)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Various somatic SNVs and InDels are detected in the SGK1 gene that might lead to the development of tumors. These variations are identified using whole-exome sequencing. Below are a few examples of somatic variations with their dbSNP ID:
- rs756489782 (missense variant)
- rs797044055 (frameshift variant)

## Related Disease
The SGK1 gene is associated with several diseases such as:
- Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
- Cancer
- Parkinson's disease
- Major depression disorder

## Treatment and Prognosis
Targeting SGK1 might be an innovative therapeutic approach to manage type 2 diabetes mellitus. It is suggested that SGK1 plays a significant role in glucose metabolism by controlling glucose uptake in skeletal muscle and adipocytes.
Moreover, inhibition of SGK1 by using specific inhibitors is considered a promising approach for cancer treatment.

## Drug Response
Several drugs have been identified that are suggested to target SGK1 and affect its expression level. Some of the drugs that affect SGK1 expression include:
- Dexamethasone
- Eplerenone
- Lithium

## References
- Lang F, et al. (2009) "Functional significance of cell volume regulatory mechanisms". Physiol. Rev. 89 (1): 193-277.
- Talarico C, et al. (2017) "New developments in the pharmacology of the serum/glucocorticoid regulated kinase 1". Curr. Med. Chem. 24 (2): 156-165.
- Li H, et al. (2016) "Serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase1 (SGK1): A novel target gene for hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 alpha (HNF4A)". Mol. Cell. Endocrinol. 431: 138-146.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**