---
title: "ANK2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: ANK2"
tags: ['ANK2', 'GeneticInformation', 'CardiacArrhythmias', 'LongQTSyndrome', 'DilatedCardiomyopathy', 'AnkyrinB', 'TreatmentOptions', 'RelatedPapers']
---

## Gene: ANK2
    
### Genetic Position
ANK2 gene is located on chromosome 14q23.3.

### Pathology
Variants in the ANK2 gene have been associated with various diseases, including cardiac arrhythmias, long QT syndrome, and dilated cardiomyopathy.

### Function
The ANK2 gene codes for a protein called ankyrin-B, which plays a critical role in stabilizing the cell membrane and organizing proteins within cells. Ankyrin-B is especially important in heart muscle cells, where it helps to regulate the heartbeat.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 535
- NCBI Entrez ID: 287
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000145362
- OMIM ID: 106410
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q01484
- Aliases: ANK2, ANKB 

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Glu1423Gly (rs200398591)
- p.Asp1328Asn (rs146757240)
- p.Asp1328Gly (rs387906981)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No known somatic SNVs/InDels in ANK2 gene.

### Related Disease
Variants in ANK2 gene have been associated with various diseases, including:
- Cardiac arrhythmias
- Long QT syndrome
- Dilated cardiomyopathy

### Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment options for ANK2-related diseases vary depending on the specific condition. In general, treatment may involve medications to regulate heart rhythm and to prevent blood clots. In some cases, surgery or implantation of a pacemaker or defibrillator may be needed. The prognosis for individuals with ANK2-related conditions also varies depending on the severity of the symptoms and the effectiveness of treatment.

### Drug Response
No information on drug response available for ANK2 gene.

### Related Papers
- Mohler, PJ et al. Ankyrin-B Syndrome: Enhanced Cardiac Function Balanced by Risk of Cardiac Death and Premature Senescence. PLoS One. 2007; 2(8): e829. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0000829.
- Duane, PG et al. Ankyrin-B Dysfunction Precedes a Spectrum of Genetically Defined Cardiac Arrhythmias. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2015; 112(37): 11393-11398. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1510008112.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**