---
title: "PACRG"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene PACRG"
tags: ['GenePACRG', 'CiliaFormation', 'PrimaryCiliaryDyskinesia', 'MissenseMutation', 'FrameshiftMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'UniProtKB']
---

# Gene PACRG

## Information
- **Genetic position:** Chromosome 6: 133,878,875-133,888,958
- **Function:** The PACRG gene encodes a protein that plays a role in cilia formation and function. Cilia are tiny, hair-like projections on the surface of cells that act like antennae to receive signals and move fluids.
- **External IDs and Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 21720
    - NCBI Entrez: 154091
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000186336
    - OMIM: 609544
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6DN90
- **Related Disease:** PACRG mutations have been associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD). PCD is a rare genetic disorder that affects the ability of cilia to move properly. This can lead to chronic respiratory infections, infertility, and problems with organ development.
- **Treatment and prognosis:** Currently, there is no cure for PCD. Treatment involves managing the symptoms, such as antibiotics for infections and respiratory therapy to clear mucus from the lungs. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the condition and the individual's overall health.
- **Drug response:** There are currently no drugs specifically targeted to PACRG for the treatment of PCD.
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| ----------- | -------------| -------- |
| L37P | Missense | rs757054361 |
| G165_C166insAGC | Frameshift | rs399704985 |
| W238* | Nonsense | rs1057518830 |

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No somatic mutations have been reported.
  
## References
- Dieterich, C., et al. (2007). PACRG, a protein linked to ciliary motility, mediates cellular signaling. Molecular Biology of the Cell, 18(5), 2191–2201. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1091/mbc.e07-01-0002)
- Knowles, M. R., & Leigh, M. W. (2021). Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia: Recent advances in diagnostics, genetics, and characterization of clinical disease. American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, 203(6), 634-650. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1164/rccm.202007-2859CI)
- UniProt Consortium. (2021). UniProt: The universal protein knowledgebase in 2021. Nucleic Acids Research, 49(D1), D480–D489. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkaa1100)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**