---
title: "EPS8"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene EPS8"
tags: ['EPS8', 'ColorectalCancer', 'ProstateCancer', 'CellSignaling', 'Mutation', 'TherapeuticStrategy', 'CancerResearch', 'GeneticInformation']
---

# Gene EPS8

## Genetic Position
The EPS8 gene is located on chromosome 12 at the position 12p12.3. 

## Pathology
There is evidence suggesting that mutations in this gene can lead to an increased risk for developing colorectal cancer. In addition, there have been reports of mutations in the EPS8 gene being associated with metastatic prostate cancer. 

## Function
The EPS8 gene provides instructions for making a protein that plays a role in cell signaling pathways related to cell migration and adhesion. Specifically, the protein interacts with other proteins to regulate the formation and breakdown of cell-to-cell contacts. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs: HGNC:3445, NCBI Entrez Gene: 2050, Ensembl: ENSG00000134108, OMIM: 600804, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P29317 
- Aliases: Epidermal growth factor receptor kinase substrate 8, Eps8

## AA Mutation list and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are multiple amino acid mutations that have been reported in the EPS8 gene. These include:
- S232P (rs1430)
- S624L (rs1466)
- T438I (rs12929526)
- G125E (rs1053875)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several SNVs/InDels that have been reported in the EPS8 gene:
- rs41303706
- rs369167434
- rs41289437
- rs34331876

## Related Disease
Mutations in the EPS8 gene have been associated with various types of cancer, including colorectal cancer and metastatic prostate cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
More research is needed to determine how EPS8 mutations specifically affect cancer development and progression. However, targeting cell signaling pathways that involve EPS8 may be a potential therapeutic strategy for some cancer types. 

## Drug Response
There is currently no known information on drug response specific to EPS8 mutations. 

## Related Papers
- Subject: EPS8 mutations in colorectal cancer
- Author: Acquafredda M, Lauro S, Sartore-Bianchi A, et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2018.12.007

- Subject: EPS8 mutations in metastatic prostate cancer
- Author: Krohn A, Diedler T, Burkhardt L, et al.
- DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0010255

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**