---
title: "NARS2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene NARS2"
tags: ['NARS2', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorders', 'ProteinSynthesis', 'PCH9', 'MSCPSCA', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about gene NARS2

## Genetic Position
The NARS2 gene is located on the long (q) arm of chromosome 11 at position 14.1. 

## Pathology
Mutations in the NARS2 gene have been linked to several neurodegenerative disorders such as pontocerebellar hypoplasia and progressive microcephaly. 

## Function 
The NARS2 gene encodes for the mitochondrial asparaginyl-tRNA synthetase, which plays a key role in protein synthesis. 

## External IDs
- HGNC: 28408
- NCBI Entrez: 54911
- Ensembl: ENSG00000171603
- OMIM: 612803
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6P1X8

## AA mutation list
Several amino acid mutations have been associated with NARS2 gene mutations. These include:
- p.Leu87Pro 
- p.Gly96Arg 
- p.Cys99Ser 

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
The following somatic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) associated with NARS2 gene have been identified:
- rs562083691
- rs111033072

## Related Disease
Mutations in the NARS2 gene have been associated with various disorders, including:
- Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 9 (PCH9)
- Microcephaly, Progressive, with Seizures and Cerebral and Cerebellar Atrophy (MSCPSCA)

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for PCH9 or MSCPSCA, and treatment is primarily supportive. The prognosis for individuals with NARS2-related disorders can vary widely depending on the specific mutation and severity of the disease.

## Drug Response
There is currently no approved drug therapy for treating NARS2-related disorders. 

## Related Papers
- Subject: Whole exome sequencing in patients with pontocerebellar hypoplasia reveals mutations in the DNAJC21 and NARS2 genes.
  - Author: Sasaki, M., Takanashi, J. I., Tada, H., et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2014.06.002
- Subject: Compound Heterozygous Mutations in the Mitochondrial Asparaginyl-tRNA Synthetase Gene NARS2 Cause Primary Microcephaly.
  - Author: Jenkinson, E. M., Rodero, M. P., Kasher, P. R., et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2015.08.014

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**