---
title: "ALAS2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for ALAS2"
tags: ['ALAS2', 'XlinkedSideroblasticAnemia', 'HemeBiosynthesis', 'MissenseMutation', 'BloodDisorder', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

# Gene Information for ALAS2

## Gene Position

The ALAS2 gene is located on the X chromosome at position Xp11.21.

## Pathology and Function

The ALAS2 gene encodes for the delta-aminolevulinic acid synthase 2, an enzyme that is involved in the heme biosynthesis pathway. Mutations in this gene can cause X-linked sideroblastic anemia, a type of anemia characterized by an accumulation of iron in the mitochondria of erythroid precursor cells in the bone marrow.

## External IDs and Aliases

The ALAS2 gene is also known by the following aliases:

- ALAS
- DKFZp686L20217
- DKFZp686M17190

External IDs for the ALAS2 gene and genomic location include:

- HGNC: 398
- NCBI Entrez: 212
- Ensembl: ENSG00000102010
- OMIM: 301300
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P22557

## AA Mutation List

Below is a list of some of the known non-synonymous amino acid changes (mutations) in the ALAS2 gene. The mutation type and corresponding dbSNP ID are also included.

| AA Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
| ----------- | ---- | -------- |
| V122I       | Missense | rs137852769 |
| G139V | Missense | rs137852770 |
| R167W | Missense | rs121908710 |
| G170R | Missense | rs114686070 |
| L176P | Missense | rs121908711 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

There are currently no known somatic SNVs or InDels in the ALAS2 gene.

## Related Disease

Mutations in the ALAS2 gene have been linked to X-linked sideroblastic anemia.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment options for X-linked sideroblastic anemia include blood transfusions, chelation therapy to remove excess iron, and bone marrow transplants. The prognosis for individuals with X-linked sideroblastic anemia can vary depending on the severity of the anemia and any associated complications.

## Drug Response

There is currently no known drug response specific to mutations in the ALAS2 gene.

## Related Papers

- Author: Cazzola M, May A, Bergamaschi G, Cerani P, Rosti V, Bishop DF, Ponka P
  - Title: Familial occurrence of myelodysplastic syndromes: report of four families and review of the literature.
  - Journal: Leukemia & lymphoma.
  - DOI: 10.3109/10428199209057385

- Author: Cotter PD, May A, Li L, Al-Sabah AI, Fitzsimons EJ, Kilbane MM, Lowery M, Maffioli M, O'Brien SG
  - Title: Familial XLMR with deletions involving the amino terminus of the 2.4 kb isoform of the UPF3B gene.
  - Journal: Clinical Genetics.
  - DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.2010.01411.x

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**