---
title: "ADCY5"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ADCY5"
tags: ['ADCY5', 'cAMP', 'Neurotransmission', 'Dyskinesia', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'ADHD', 'Schizophrenia', 'Levodopa']
---

# Gene ADCY5

## Introduction
ADCY5 (Adenylate Cyclase 5) gene located on chromosome 3p21.31, encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the production of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signal transduction molecule. Being involved in the regulation of various cellular functions, it plays an essential role in neurotransmission, insulin secretion, and modulation of bacterial infection.

## Function
ADCY5 is a membrane-bound enzyme that catalyzes the generation of the second messenger cAMP in response to a variety of extracellular signals. cAMP serves as a signaling molecule that regulates many important cellular processes, including metabolic pathways, gene transcription, ion channel activity, and neuronal activity.

## External IDs
- HGNC:106
- NCBI Entrez: 107
- Ensembl: ENSG00000135046
- OMIM: 600291
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O95622

## AA Mutation list and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.1439C>T (p.Arg480Cys) rs200367329
- c.1574G>A (p.Arg525His) rs121909391
- c.1666C>T (p.Arg556Cys) rs121909392
- c.1693C>T (p.Arg565Trp) rs121909393

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.616del (p.Glu206Argfs) rs7537249
- c.3100G>A (p.Arg1034Gln) rs139198245

## Related Diseases
Genetic variations in ADCY5 have been associated with several diseases, including:
- Dyskinesia
- Parkinson's disease
- Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
- Schizophrenia

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no standard treatment available for ADCY5-related disorders. However, various medications such as anticholinergic agents, levodopa, and deep brain stimulation (DBS) have been used for dyskinesia and Parkinson's disease with mixed results.
The prognosis for individuals with ADCY5-related disorders varies depending on the severity and type of disease.

## Drug Response
ADCY5 mutations have been associated with the responsiveness to treatments such as levodopa in Parkinson's disease patients.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Prolonged Survival With Normal Cognitive Functioning in Unaffected Carriers of Pathogenic Variants in ADCY5-Related Dyskinesia
  - Author: James J. Riviello Jr. et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/ana.26098
  
- Subject: ADCY5-related movement disorders: Frequency, disease course, and phenotypic variability in a cohort of paediatric patients
  - Author: Laura Rosa et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/mdc3.12928

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**