---
title: "CFHR3"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on gene CFHR3"
tags: ['CFHR3', 'ComplementSystem', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'AHUS5', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticVariations', 'MacularDegeneration', 'Eculizumab']
---

# Information on gene CFHR3

## Summary
CFHR3 stands for "Complement Factor H-Related 3" gene. The CFHR3 protein is a member of the regulation of complement activation (RCA) protein family and interacts with the alternative pathway of complement. This gene is located on chromosome 1 (1q32.2) and encodes a protein of 345 amino acids.

## Function
CFHR3 gene is involved in regulating the activation of the complement system, which is a part of the body's defense mechanism against harmful pathogens. CFHR3 protein regulates the activity of complement factor H, a protein that inhibits the complement system by breaking down the C3 convertase, which is a complex that activates the complement cascade. The alterations in CFHR3 gene expression have been linked with complement dysregulation and multiple human diseases.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 4939
- NCBI Entrez: 10876
- Ensembl: ENSG00000143155
- OMIM: 614169
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q04210
- Aliases: AHUS5, CFHL3 

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
The following are some of the AA mutations in the CFHR3 protein:
- p.Ty256Arg (rs61751082)
- p.T117M (rs200607373)
- p.C71Y (rs182617198)
- p.P84S (rs61733145)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
The following are some of the somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID in CFHR3 gene:
- rs10494798
- rs34882957
- rs17412807
- rs72501903

## Related diseases
Genetic variations in CFHR3 gene have been associated with multiple diseases including:
- Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome, atypical 5 (AHUS5)
- Autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA), lupus erythematosus (LE), and uveitis
- Cardiovascular diseases, such as age-related macular degeneration (AMD), coronary artery disease (CAD), and myocardial infarction (MI)

## Treatment and prognosis
The treatment and prognosis vary for each disease associated with CFHR3 gene variations. Several treatment options for autoimmune diseases include nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), and biologic agents. There is no cure for AHUS5; however, early diagnosis and appropriate treatment may improve the outcomes.

## Drug response
Studies show that CFHR3 gene is associated with drug response to complement-targeted therapies, such as eculizumab. Individuals with certain CFHR3 gene variations may have a reduced response to eculizumab. 

## Related papers
- Author: Rodriguez E, et al.
  *Title*: A genetic classification of familial hemolytic uremic syndrome. 
  *DOI*: 10.1182/BLOOD.V112.10.3018

- Author: Tserentsoodol N, et al. 
  *Title*: Pathologic subretinal neovascularization in juveniles versus adults with AMD. 
  *DOI*: 10.1167/iovs.11-9336

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**