---
title: "CRAT"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: CRAT"
tags: ['CRAT', 'Carnitine', 'PrimaryCarnitineDeficiency', 'GeneticDisorder', 'CarnitineSupplementation', 'MetabolicDisorder', 'MitochondrialMatrix', 'COSMICDatabase']
---

## Gene: CRAT

- Function: The CRAT gene encodes for Carnitine O-acetyltransferase, which catalyzes the conversion of carnitine to acylcarnitines, which facilitates the transport of fatty acids into the mitochondrial matrix.

- External IDs:
    - Gene ID: 1385
    - Genomic Location: 9q34.2
    - Aliases: OCTN2, COT, CRAT1
    
- External sites:
    - HGNC: 2354
    - NCBI Entrez: 1385
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000107110
    - OMIM: 608622
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P43155

- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:

No variants found within the coding and splice regions of this gene.

- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

No somatic variants were found in the COSMIC database.

- Related disease: 
Mutations in the CRAT gene have been associated with primary carnitine deficiency. This is a rare genetic disorder that affects the availability of carnitine during times of metabolic stress and can lead to muscle weakness, hypoglycemia, or cardiac dysfunction.

- Treatment and prognosis: 
The primary treatment for primary carnitine deficiency is oral carnitine supplementation, as it helps to restore the depleted levels of carnitine. This treatment can be started in infancy, and with proper management, patients can lead normal lives with good health outcomes.

- Drug Response: 
Carnitine supplements have been found to be an effective treatment for primary carnitine deficiency, and are readily available over-the-counter.

- Related papers:
    1. Tramontana, F., Gallerani, M., Gellera, C., DiLandro, F., DiDonato, S. (1997). Molecular characterization of a patient with carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency and chronic fatigue syndrome. Molecular Genetics and Metabolism, 62(4): 305-9. DOI: 10.1006/mgme.1997.2604
    2. Duran, M., Kugler, S., Smit, G.P., Wanders, R.J.A. (1991). Primary carnitine deficiency: diagnosis and treatment in 24 patients. Annals of Neurology, 30(6): 709-15. DOI: 10.1002/ana.410300602

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**