---
title: "SNORD50A"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene SNORD50A"
tags: ['SNORD50A', 'snoRNA', 'ribosomalRNA', 'posttranscriptionalmodification', 'noncodingRNA', 'geneticinformation', 'geneticposition', 'function']
---

# Information about gene SNORD50A

## Genetic position
SNORD50A (Small Nucleolar RNA, C/D Box 50A) is a non-coding RNA gene located on chromosome 12q24.31.

## Pathology
There is no known pathology associated with SNORD50A at this time.

## Function
SNORD50A is a member of the C/D box small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA) family, which are important for the post-transcriptional modification of ribosomal RNA. SNORD50A guides the 2'-O-methylation of ribosomal RNA U2554.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 33759
- NCBI Entrez: 100528032
- Ensembl: ENSG00000233724
- OMIM: -
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: -

### Aliases
- SNORD50-1
- SNORD50-2

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
As SNORD50A is a non-coding RNA gene, there are no amino acid (AA) mutations or dbSNP IDs associated with this gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
As SNORD50A is a non-coding RNA gene, there are no somatic SNVs/InDels or dbSNP IDs associated with this gene.

## Related disease
There are no known diseases associated with SNORD50A at this time.

## Treatment and prognosis
As there are no known diseases associated with SNORD50A, there is no treatment or prognosis information available.

## Drug response
As there are no known diseases associated with SNORD50A, there is no drug response information available.

## Related papers
- Lestrade, L., & Weber, M. J. (2006). snoRNA-LBME-db, a comprehensive database of human H/ACA and C/D box snoRNAs. Nucleic acids research, 34(Database issue), D158-D162. DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkj002
- Mayer, C., & Dimmeler, S. (2018). Small and long noncoding RNAs: novel targets for the therapy of age-related cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. Circulation research, 123(2), 260-279. DOI: 10.1161/CIRCRESAHA.118.312871

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**