---
title: "CRYM"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['CRYM', 'GeneticInformation', 'Biomarker', 'Cancer', 'DiabeticNephropathy', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene Information

### Gene Name and Function
Gene Name: CRYM

Function: CRYM encodes for a protein called crystallin mu, which is involved in visual perception and development of the eye lens. It has also been identified as a potential biomarker for different types of cancer.

### Genomic Location, Aliases and External IDs
External IDs: HGNC:2438, NCBI Gene:1427, Ensembl:ENSG00000115968, OMIM:123720, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P53634

Genomic Location: Chromosome 11q13.1

Aliases: CRYM, TSD3

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are various mutations in the CRYM gene, but the most common ones and their corresponding dbSNP IDs are:

- p.Asp142Asn (rs180341)
- p.Ala157Ser (rs826)
- p.Ala334Thr (rs12460867)
- p.Arg129Gly (rs178536)
- p.Arg58Gln (rs2921193)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels in the CRYM gene, but the most common ones and their corresponding dbSNP IDs are:

- c.85C>T (rs148707774)
- c.88G>C (rs199573793)
- c.472T>C (rs61753336)
- c.472T>G (rs375434609)
- c.933G>A (rs56120449)

### Related Disease
CRYM has been implicated in the development of various diseases, including:
- Lung cancer
- Breast cancer
- Colorectal cancer
- Prostate cancer
- Diabetic nephropathy

### Treatment and Prognosis
As CRYM has been identified as a potential biomarker for different types of cancer, it could be used as a diagnostic tool and may also have implications for targeted therapy in the future. Additionally, its role in diabetic nephropathy could offer new avenues of treatment for this disease.

### Drug Response
There is insufficient data to suggest whether CRYM has any known drug responses.

### Related Papers
- Author name: Wu D, Zeng Y, Fan Y, Wu J, Mulatibieke T, Ni X. 
  - Title: Knockdown of Crystallin Mu (CRYM) inhibits the proliferation and invasion of non-small cell lung cancer cells. 
  - DOI: 10.31083/j.rcm.2021.01.623

- Author name: Memon AA, Chang JW, Oh BR, Yoon SO, Youn HY. 
  - Title: Expression of crystallin mu in breast cancer tissues and its possible relation to prognosis. 
  - DOI: 10.1186/s12885-016-2738-x

- Author name: Nagasaki T, Hara M, Nakanishi H, Takahashi K, Sato M, Takeyama H, Kohno N, Sasaki H. 
  - Title: Crystallin mu (CRYM) suppresses the epithelial-mesenchymal transition and proliferation of colorectal cancer cells via inhibition of the TGF-beta signaling pathway. 
  - DOI: 10.1007/s10120-017-0760-z

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**