---
title: "POMGNT1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: POMGNT1"
tags: ['POMGNT1', 'CongenitalMuscularDystrophy', 'Glycosylation', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Research', 'MuscleEyeBrainDisease']
---

## Gene: POMGNT1

### Genetic Position
POMGNT1 gene is located on Chromosome 3 at position 3p24.2

### Pathology
Mutation in POMGNT1 gene is known to cause Congenital Muscular Dystrophy. It is a rare genetic disorder that affects the muscles and causes progressive muscle weakness, poor muscle tone, and joint deformities.

### Function
POMGNT1 gene encodes for an enzyme that is involved in the addition of sugars to proteins. This process is essential for the proper functioning of various proteins. The POMGNT1 enzyme is specifically involved in the glycosylation of alpha-dystroglycan, which is a protein that helps in maintaining the structural integrity of muscles.

### External IDs, Aliases and Genomic Location
- HGNC ID: 9070
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 55665
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000185627
- OMIM ID: 606822
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q8NBS3
- Alias: GTDC2

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.1325G>A (p.Arg442His) rs104894436
- c.1945G>A (p.Gly649Ser) rs104894433
- c.2089C>T (p.Arg697*) rs104894432
- c.865A>G (p.Asn289Ser) rs267607105

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known somatic mutations in POMGNT1 gene.

### Related Disease
- Congenital Muscular Dystrophy type C1 (MDC1C)

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for MDC1C. Treatment mainly involves managing the symptoms with physical therapy, respiratory support, and surgery in some cases. The prognosis for individuals with MDC1C is variable and depends on the severity of the symptoms.

### Drug Response
There are currently no known drugs available that can cure MDC1C. However, ongoing research is being conducted to identify potential treatments.

### Related Papers
- **Subject**: Forging a Path to Treat Congenital Muscular Dystrophy Type 1C**
- **Author**: James J. Dowling et al. 
- **DOI Link**: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymgme.2020.06.012)

- **Subject:** POMGNT mutation and phenotypic spectrum in muscle‐eye‐brain disease **
- **Author**: Mizuho Nishiyama et al. 
- **DOI Link**: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/mus.23928)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**