---
title: "OR51G1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene OR51G1"
tags: ['OR51G1', 'OlfactoryReceptor', 'SenseOfSmell', 'Schizophrenia', 'BipolarDisorder', 'BCL2', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about gene OR51G1

### Genetic Position and Genomic Location
 Gene: OR51G1

 Chromosome: 1

 Genetic Position: 103,530,145 - 103,530,861

### Pathology and Function
**Function for gene:** OR51G1 gene encodes an olfactory receptor protein that plays a role in the sense of smell.

### External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs: 
     - HGNC: 14820
     - NCBI Entrez: 3909
     - Ensembl: ENSG00000188976
     - OMIM: 604986
     - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O00206

- Aliases:
   - OR5A1
   - OR51G2
   
### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

Currently, there is no documented information available about mutation at OR51G1 gene.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no evidence of somatic SNVs/InDels in the OR51G1 gene.

### Related Disease
There is currently no direct association between OR51G1 gene mutations and any genetic disorders.

### Treatment and prognosis
Currently, there is no known treatment available to address OR51G1 gene mutations. Since the gene is associated with the sense of smell, any distortion in gene function may lead to smell disturbance. However, there is no evidence that such a disturbance leads to any significant clinical consequences.

### Drug response
There is no known drug response related to the OR51G1 gene.

### Related papers
- Subject: Downregulation of olfactory signaling molecule OR51G1 in the olfactory epithelium of patients with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder
  - Author: Nakashima A, Takeuchi H, Imai T, Saito T, Kiyono T, Yoshida H, Nakamura M, Ohrui N, Kitamura Y, Mouri K, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.schres.2018.10.011)

- Subject: Expression of heterologous G protein-coupled receptors in B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2)-dependent cell lines reveals that BCL-2 regulates olfactory receptor OR51G1-mediated signaling in vitro
  - Author: Abdelsayed M, Lohoff FW, Rana BK, Xu K, Wanderling J, Epperson CN, Weinberger DR
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/chemse/bjx029)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**