---
title: "SAR1B"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SAR1B"
tags: ['GeneSAR1B', 'ChylomicronRetentionDisease', 'COPII', 'TransportVesicles', 'MissenseVariation', 'NonsenseVariation', 'SupportiveManagement', 'RetinalDisease']
---

# Information about Gene SAR1B

## Genetic Position
Gene SAR1B is located on chromosome 5q31.1.

## Pathology
Mutations in SAR1B are associated with Chylomicron Retention Disease (CMRD) also known as Anderson's disease. It is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by the failure to secrete chylomicrons from enterocytes, leading to the accumulation of chylomicrons in the endoplasmic reticulum of enterocytes.

## Function
The SAR1B gene encodes a protein called SAR1B, which belongs to the SAR1 gene family and plays a crucial role in the formation of COPII-coated transport vesicles that mediate the transport of proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi apparatus.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 10605
- NCBI Entrez: 51161
- Ensembl: ENSG00000181751
- OMIM: 607690
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96RU8
- Aliases: SAR1L, SAR1-like protein

## AA Mutation List with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID
- c.424G>A (p.Glu142Lys) missense variation with dbSNP ID: rs61753375
- c.181G>A (p.Glu61Lys) missense variation with dbSNP ID: rs142648609
- c.22C>T (p.Arg8*) nonsense variation with dbSNP ID: rs1554216674

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic mutations in SAR1B.

## Related Disease
Chylomicron retention disease (CMRD) also known as Anderson's disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for CMRD, and management is mainly supportive with dietary fat restriction and parenteral nutrition. Patients with CMRD are at risk of developing progressive retinal disease and hepatic steatosis.

## Drug Response
There are currently no reported drug responses for mutations in SAR1B.

## Related Papers
- **Author:** L. Waskell, B.P. Hubbard, D.E. Slaughter, L.L. Clee
  - **Title:** Chylomicron retention disease (Anderson's disease). A new disease of defective triglyceride metabolism.
  - **Journal:** JAMA. 1984 Jan 20;251(3):355-61.
  - **DOI:** 10.1001/jama.1984.03340270059025
  
- **Author:** R. Levy, M. Thaury, V. Boileau, P. Dubois, J.P. Rabizandira, B. Girardet, J.C. Bernard, R.H. Bares, P. Guillot, V. Blasco, et al.
  - **Title:** Anderson's disease (chylomicron retention disease): a new mutation in the SARA2 gene associated with muscular and cardiac abnormalities.
  - **Journal:** Clin Genet. 2002 Dec;62(6):530-4. 
  - **DOI:** 10.1034/j.1399-0004.2002.620612.x

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**