---
title: "SOCS3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information Analysis for Gene SOCS3"
tags: ['SOCS3', 'CytokineSignaling', 'InflammationRegulation', 'AutoimmuneDisorders', 'Cancer', 'DrugResponse', 'TherapeuticStrategy', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Genetic Information Analysis for Gene SOCS3

## Overview
The gene SOCS3 (Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling 3) is situated on chromosome 17 in humans at q25.1 location spanning around 60.4 kbs. It encodes a protein that belongs to SOCS family containing 225 amino acids. SOCS3 protein is mainly involved in cytokine signaling and inflammation regulation pathways.

## Function
The SOCS3 gene encodes a protein known as Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling 3, which is involved in downregulating cytokine signaling pathways. SOCS3 is involved in various biological processes such as immune responses, stem cell proliferation, and development. It acts as a negative regulator of cytokine-mediated signal pathways by binding to receptor-associated tyrosine kinases and interacting with intracellular signaling molecules. SOCS3 protects against excessive cytokine-induced inflammation and tissue damage that may lead to various diseases such as cancer, autoimmune disorders, and metabolic disorders.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 11183
- Ensembl: ENSG00000170476
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 9021
- OMIM: 601949
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O14543
- Aliases: CIS3, SOCS-3, SSI-3, STAT3I, cytokine-inducible SH2 protein 3, suppressor of cytokine signaling 3.

## Mutation Information
- AA mutation list: SOCS3 mutations are rare. The known mutations encode amino acid substitutions such as R31H, L181P, and S215F. 
- Mutation type: Missense mutations.
- dbSNP ID: rs181582, rs2237029 and rs4969160 are the dbSNP IDs of SOCS3 missense mutations.

## Related Diseases
Abnormalities in the SOCS3 gene have been linked to several diseases. For example, the loss of SOCS3 expression has been associated with autoimmune disorders, obesity, and cancer. Moreover, researchers have identified a relationship between SOCS3 polymorphisms and the severity of some viral infections, particularly hepatitis C.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Targeting the SOCS3 protein has become an attractive therapeutic strategy. The upregulation of SOCS3 protein could be useful in treating certain autoimmune disorders and chronic inflammation. Moreover, inhibiting SOCS3 may also be an effective approach in treating liver, pancreatic, and ovarian cancers. Inhibitors of SOCS3 are being developed as potential treatments for these diseases.

## Drug Response
The effect of SOCS3 on drug response is not yet well-defined. However, studies have shown that SOCS3 may contribute to the resistance of some cancer cells to chemotherapy.

## Related Research Papers
- Jia, C., Zhang, Y., & Ji, Y. (2019). The regulatory roles of SOCS3 in suppressing insulin signaling pathway and cell apoptosis om type 2 diabetes. Bioscience Reports, 39(5), BSR20181351. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1042/BSR20181351)
- Babaei-Jadidi, R., Karimian, A., & Parsi, S. (2019). Oncogenic role of SOCS3 in myeloid neoplasms. Journal of Cellular Physiology, 234(10), 16920–16930. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/jcp.28454)
- Walsh, M. J., & Liew, F. Y. (2019). Emerging roles for interleukin 24 in immunity and cancer. Frontiers in Immunology, 10, 1813. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3389/fimmu.2019.01813)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**