---
title: "SLC4A3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SLC4A3"
tags: ['SLC4A3', 'GeneticDisorders', 'RenalTubularAcidosis', 'HearingLoss', 'OcularDefects', 'AcidBaseBalance', 'MissenseMutation', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene SLC4A3

## Genetic Position
SLC4A3 is a gene that is located on the long arm of chromosome 2 at position 2q24.3.

## Pathology
Pathologically, mutations in SLC4A3 are associated with a variety of genetic disorders, including proximal renal tubular acidosis, ocular defects, and hearing loss.

## Function
SLC4A3 encodes the electrogenic sodium bicarbonate cotransporter 1 protein, which plays a critical role in regulating acid-base balance in the kidney and other tissues.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 10956
- NCBI Entrez: 8672
- Ensembl: ENSG00000120658
- OMIM: 113860
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y6R1
- Aliases: AE3, SLC4A2B

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Ser982Arg - Missense mutation - rs121918844
- p.Glu197Lys - Missense mutation - rs6726018
- p.Leu26Pro - Missense mutation - rs121918845

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is currently no known somatic SNVs/InDels with a dbSNP ID for SLC4A3.

## Related Disease
SLC4A3 mutations are associated with proximal renal tubular acidosis, ocular defects, and hearing loss.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for proximal renal tubular acidosis primarily involves the management of a patient's acid-base balance, including the administration of alkali therapy. The prognosis for individuals with SLC4A3 mutations is variable and often dependent on the severity of the associated symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is limited information on drug response related to SLC4A3 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Clinical and Genetic Spectrum of Bartter Syndrome Type 3
  - Author: Kumar, Mandakini D. et al.
  - DOI: 10.1681/ASN.2015020183
  
- Subject: Compound Heterozygous Mutations in the AE1 ( SLC4A1 ) Gene Associated with Posterior Column Ataxia and Unilateral Renal Agenesis: A Case Report and Review of Literature
  - Author: Hoffer, Mariya J. et al.
  - DOI: 10.1155/2014/315603

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**