---
title: "IL1RAPL1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information Analysis for IL1RAPL1 Gene"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'IL1RAPL1Gene', 'NeurodevelopmentalDisorders', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'IntellectualDisability', 'SynapticFunctions', 'Mutation', 'Treatment']
---

# Gene Information Analysis for IL1RAPL1 Gene

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

**IL1RAPL1 Gene:** The IL1RAPL1 (Interleukin 1 Receptor Accessory Protein Like 1) gene is located on chromosome Xq28 and spans about 550 Kb. It is known to code for the protein Interleukin-1 receptor accessory protein-like 1. The gene is also known by other names such as IL-1R8, IRAK7, and PNPLA8.

**Function for Gene:** IL1RAPL1 is known to play an essential role in the function of the central nervous system. It is involved in neurodevelopment and synaptic functions, specifically in the formation and maintenance of dendritic spines.

**External IDs and Aliases:** The following are the external IDs and aliases associated with the IL1RAPL1 gene:
- HGNC: 14444
- NCBI Entrez: 11141
- Ensembl: ENSG00000102468
- OMIM: 300206
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H0F7

**AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID:** There are several known variants of the IL1RAPL1 gene that are associated with different neurodevelopmental disorders. Some of the common variants include:
- c.796C>T (p.Arg266Trp), rs120074094
- c.893C>T (p.Thr298Met), rs200853855
- c.181C>T (p.Arg61Trp), rs786205335

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** There are no known somatic mutations reported for the IL1RAPL1 gene.

**Related Disease:** Several neurodevelopmental disorders have been associated with the IL1RAPL1 gene, including autism spectrum disorders, X-linked intellectual disability, and nonspecific mental retardation.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** There is no known cure for neurodevelopmental disorders caused by the IL1RAPL1 gene. Treatment is usually supportive and focuses on improving the quality of life for affected individuals.

**Drug Response:** There is no known drug specifically designed to treat neurodevelopmental disorders associated with the IL1RAPL1 gene.

**Subject, Author name, DOI links to Related Papers:**

1. *IL1RAPL1 Gene Mutations Are Associated with Autism Spectrum Disorder* by N. Jamain et al. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1103935))
2. *IL1RAPL1 Associated Intellectual Disability and Autism Spectrum Disorders May have Common Underlying Mechanisms* by A. Nag et al. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13229-015-0064-z))
3. *Molecular Characterization of Two Unbalanced X; Autosome Translocations by Using Human Sequence-Based Approaches: Implications for Characterizing Unbalanced Translocations* by Y. Takahashi et al. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/ajmg.a.32184))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**