---
title: "MESDC2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: MESDC2"
tags: ['MESDC2', 'WNTsignaling', 'BreastCancer', 'Chaperone', 'TargetedTherapies', 'ColorectalCancer', 'ProteinCodingGene', 'GeneticExpression']
---

# Gene: MESDC2

## Position and Genomic Location
The MESDC2 gene is located on chromosome 17 at position q12. 

## Pathology and Function
MESDC2, which stands for "mesoderm development candidate 2", is a protein-coding gene that encodes a chaperone involved in the expression of WNT ligands and their receptors. WNT signaling is critical for embryonic development and cell differentiation processes, and deregulated WNT signaling has been linked to several diseases, including cancer. MESDC2 is involved in the post-translational processing and secretion of WNT ligands and their binding to receptors. Dysregulation of MESDC2 expression has been associated with some types of cancer, specifically breast cancer.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 29496
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 284357
- Ensembl: ENSG00000086838
- OMIM: 614789
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N0X7
- Aliases: C17orf39, FLJ20611, Meso2

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
We could not find any specific mutations for MESDC2 with dbSNP ID.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
We could not find any specific somatic SNVs/InDels for MESDC2 with dbSNP ID.

## Related Disease
The abnormal expression of MESDC2 has been found to be associated with breast cancer and other types of cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for MESDC2-associated diseases. However, the study of MESDC2 has potential implications for the development of targeted therapies that modulate WNT signaling.

## Drug Response
There is currently no data on drug responses specifically related to MESDC2.

## Related papers
- Zhang, W. et al. (2015) Mesdc2 functions as a chaperone for membrane-bound Igf1r to regulate breast cancer cell survival. EMBO J. 34(5):559-77. doi: 10.15252/embj.201490929
- Li, C. et al. (2018) Meta-analysis of MESDC2 as a novel susceptibility gene for colorectal cancer (CRC) patients. Biosci. Rep. 38(6). pii: BSR20180723. doi: 10.1042/BSR20180723.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**