---
title: "MED17"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: MED17"
tags: ['GeneMED17', 'TranscriptionRegulation', 'MediatorComplex', 'MissenseMutations', 'Cancer', 'ProstateCancer', 'BreastCancer', 'PancreaticCancer']
---

# Gene: MED17

## Genetic Position
MED17 is located on chromosome 11 at the position 11q13.1.

## Pathology
There is limited information on the pathology related to MED17. However, some studies have suggested that its overexpression may be involved in certain cancers.

## Function
MED17 is a subunit of the transcriptional regulatory protein complex, Mediator. It is involved in the regulation of RNA polymerase II transcription.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 6771
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 9440
- Ensembl: ENSG00000110427
- OMIM: 610226
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y2W1
- Aliases: CRSP22, DXS1356E, PRO2246

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several mutations reported for MED17, which are listed below:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|L191F|Missense|rs201186165|
|P406S|Missense|rs794726469|
|R669L|Missense|rs879255082|
|E670K|Missense|rs201007469|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no somatic SNVs/InDels reported for MED17 on dbSNP.

## Related Disease
There is limited information on the diseases related to MED17. However, some studies have suggested its potential involvement in certain cancers.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment or prognosis information available for MED17 as it is not currently considered a target for therapy.

## Drug Response
There is limited information on the drug response related to MED17.

## Related Papers
- Subject: MED17 mutations in prostate cancer
  - Author: Zhang et al.
  - DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-18330-0
- Subject: MED17 overexpression in breast cancer
  - Author: Wu et al.
  - DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0094268
- Subject: MED17 as a potential therapeutic target in pancreatic cancer
  - Author: Zhang et al.
  - DOI: 10.1186/s13046-018-0899-9

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**