---
title: "PARP1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PARP1"
tags: ['PARP1', 'DNArepair', 'cancer', 'PARPinhibitors', 'somaticmutations', 'diseases', 'drugresponse', 'geneticinformation']
---

# Information about Gene PARP1

## Genetic Position:
PARP1 gene is located on Chromosome 1q41-q42, specifically from the base pair 225,102,985 to 225,133,265.

## Pathology:
PARP1 gene plays a crucial role in DNA repair mechanisms through Base Excision Repair (BER) pathway. It modifies and attaches ADP-ribose polymers to poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR) acceptor proteins to facilitate the DNA repair process. Its dysfunction leads to a plethora of DNA damage-associated diseases, including cancer.

## Function:
PARP1 gene serves as a molecular sensor for detecting DNA strand breaks and initiating DNA repair mechanisms. Its polymerization ability helps in amplifying the DNA repair signal, recruiting downstream DNA repair proteins, and augmenting the cohesion of damaged DNA strands. In addition, it can also regulate gene expression and epigenetic mechanisms by modifying associated proteins with ADP-ribose.

## External IDs, Aliases and Locations:
- HGNC: 8761
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 142
- Ensembl: ENSG00000143799
- OMIM: 173870
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P09874
- Aliases: ADPRT, ARTD1, PARP, PPOL

## AA Mutations List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID:
A considerable number of AA mutations have been identified in the PARP1 gene. Here are few of them:
- E988K (rs1136410)
- R49C (rs1136411)
- T24S (rs1136412)
- D214N (rs2273628)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
Numerous somatic SNVs and InDels have been identified in the PARP1 gene. Some of them are:
- rs17879482
- rs57409539
- rs2273628
- rs2070674

## Related Diseases:
PARP1 gene dysfunction is associated with many human diseases, including:
- Cancer
- Neurodegenerative disorders
- Cardiovascular diseases
- Inflammatory diseases
- Type 1 diabetes

## Treatment and Prognosis:
PARP inhibitors have been found to be effective in treating cancers with BRCA mutations. Their prognosis shows improved survival rates and delayed progression of the disease.

## Drug Response:
PARP inhibitors, such as Rucaparib, Niraparib, and Olaparib, have been proven to be effective in certain types of cancers. Their efficiency depends on the tumor's dependence on the PARP1 pathway.

## Related Papers:
- Title: PARP-1 Inhibitors for the Treatment of Cancer: A Clinical Update
  - DOI: 10.3390/ijms20174101
  - Author: Simone Di Franco and others
- Title: Discovery of Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerase (PARP) Inhibitors and Rational Design of GNE-272, a Potent, Brain-Penetrant PARP Inhibitor
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2020.127771
  - Author: Weisheng Zhang and others

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**