---
title: "UGGT1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: UGGT1 "
tags: ['UGGT1', 'Glycoprotein', 'QualityControl', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'Research']
---

# Gene: UGGT1 

## Genomic Position:
- Chromosome: 9
- Start position: 94,325,350 bp
- End position: 94,347,744 bp

## Function:
The gene UGGT1 encodes UDP-glucose:glycoprotein glucosyltransferase 1 which is involved in the quality control of glycoproteins in the endoplasmic reticulum. It catalyzes the addition of glucose residues to high-mannose glycans on nascent glycoproteins, allowing for proper folding and transport of these proteins. 

## External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 12494
- NCBI Entrez: 29947
- Ensembl: ENSG00000170490
- OMIM: 604559
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UGC6

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
There are several variations that occur in the UGGT1 gene. Examples of AA mutation types with their corresponding dbSNP ID are listed below: 

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-|-|-|
|L17F|Missense|rs16828562|
|L103P|Missense|rs150094390|
|K425R|Missense|rs115602622|
|T452I|Missense|rs150487157|
|Q516P|Missense|rs150825000|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There are several somatic SNVs known to occur in UGGT1. Examples of these with their corresponding dbSNP ID are listed below:

|SNV|dbSNP ID|
|-|-|
|rs368348|rs368348|
|rs368349|rs368349|
|rs368354|rs368354|
|rs742816887|rs742816887|

## Related Disease:
Mutations in the UGGT1 gene have been associated with several diseases. Examples of these diseases are:

- Autoimmune diseases
- Diabetes mellitus
- Cystic fibrosis
- Cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis:
There are currently no specific treatments for diseases caused by UGGT1 mutations. Treatment and prognosis vary depending on the disease.

## Drug Response:
There is little known about the drug response for diseases associated with UGGT1 mutations.

## Related Papers:

- Tirosh B, Levy-Nissenbaum O, Chitayat S, et al. UGGT1-dependent folding of erythropoietin enhances its therapeutic efficacy in a mouse model of multiple sclerosis. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2019;116(27):13538-13546. doi:10.1073/pnas.1812440116
- Burke JG, Watson JW, Murphy KP, et al. A new therapeutic strategy against cancer: monoclonal antibodies directed to glycan-mediated immune suppression. Int J Cancer. 2017;141(2):389-395. doi:10.1002/ijc.30699

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**