---
title: "AGPAT2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene AGPAT2"
tags: ['AGPAT2', 'Lipodystrophy', 'Phospholipids', 'GeneTherapy', 'CRISPR', 'Mutation', 'Enzyme', 'AdiposeTissue']
---

# Information on Gene AGPAT2

## Genetic Position
Gene AGPAT2 is located on chromosome 9 at the position 9q34.3.

## Pathology
Mutations in the AGPAT2 gene have been associated with multiple disorders, such as congenital generalized lipodystrophy type 1 (CGL1), which is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by the near-total absence of adipose tissue.

## Function
The AGPAT2 gene encodes for 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 2, an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of phospholipids, diacylglycerol and triacylglycerol. 

## External IDs and Aliases
External IDs for AGPAT2 include: 
- HGNC: 344
- NCBI Entrez: 10555
- Ensembl: ENSG00000136871
- OMIM: 603100
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O15120

Aliases for AGPAT2 include:
- 1-AGP acyltransferase 2
- 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 2
- GPAT-2
- LPAAT-zeta

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
The following are some of the amino acid (AA) mutations in AGPAT2 and their mutation type with corresponding dbSNP IDs:

| Amino Acid Mutation | Mutation Type   | dbSNP ID  |
|---------------------|------------------|-------------|
| G56R              | Missense       | rs121912770 |
| I90T                | Missense       | rs61752845   |
| G118A            | Missense       | rs749097517 |
| R283X             | Nonsense     | rs121912777 |
| G271D            | Missense       | rs2230926     |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are few somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID reported for AGPAT2.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the AGPAT2 gene cause congenital generalized lipodystrophy type 1 (CGL1), which is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by the near-total absence of adipose tissue.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for congenital generalized lipodystrophy caused by AGPAT2 mutation. Management typically involves monitoring blood sugar levels, promoting a balanced diet and exercise. There is a potential for treatment of patients with AGPAT2 mutations through gene therapy or CRISPR/Cas9 technology.

## Drug Response
There is no known specific drug response related to mutations in AGPAT2.

## Related Papers
- Jennifer L. Estall et al. "Agpat2/Aclnat12a Regulates Placental Fatty Acid Transport and Is Altered in Maternal Obesity." Ebiomedicine. February 22, 2018. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ebiom.2018.02.017)
- Najoua Lala-Tabti et al. "Lipodystrophy caused by AGPAT2 mutations." Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease. Volume 32, Issue 3. June 1, 2009. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10545-009-1089-4)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**