---
title: "NOTCH3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about the NOTCH3 gene"
tags: ['NOTCH3', 'CADASIL', 'vasculardisorders', 'cellsignaling', 'somaticmutations', 'treatment', 'prognosis', 'geneticinformation']
---

# Information about the NOTCH3 gene

## Gene Position
- **NOTCH3** gene is located on the **19p13.2** genomic position.

## Function
- The NOTCH3 gene encodes a transmembrane receptor protein that plays a crucial role in cell signaling pathways.
- It is involved in the regulation of cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis.
- The NOTCH3 receptor is mainly expressed in vascular smooth muscle cells and regulates the development and function of the vasculature.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 7880
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 4854
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000148180
- OMIM ID: 600276
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9UM47
- Aliases: CADASIL, CASIL, HTx, ND1, ND1E, hN3.

## AA Mutations and Mutation Types
- Several AA mutations in the NOTCH3 gene have been identified to cause cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL).
- The mutations lead to the formation of an abnormal NOTCH3 protein that accumulates around blood vessels, causing damage and reducing blood flow to the brain.
- Some of the AA mutations in the NOTCH3 gene are:
  - R544C (dbSNP ID: rs104893870)
  - R133C (dbSNP ID: rs104893868)
  - C455R (dbSNP ID: rs104893869)
  
## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- Somatic mutations in the NOTCH3 gene have been reported in various cancers, including breast cancer, Ovarian cancer, and lung cancer.
- Some of the somatic mutations with their dbSNP IDs are:
  - c.1462G>A (dbSNP ID: rs779469874)
  - c.1771C>G (dbSNP ID: rs372996058)
  - c.2560G>A (dbSNP ID: rs267607002)

## Related Diseases
- Mutations in the NOTCH3 gene are associated with cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) and other vascular disorders.
- CADASIL is an inherited disorder that affects small blood vessels in the brain, leading to migraines, strokes, and dementia.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is currently no cure for CADASIL, and treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
- The prognosis for individuals with CADASIL varies depending on the severity of the symptoms and the age of onset.

## Drug Response
- There is currently no specific drug therapy available to treat CADASIL.
- However, various drugs are used to treat the symptoms associated with CADASIL, such as aspirin and antihypertensive medications.

## Related Papers
- A study by Joutel et al. describes NOTCH3 gene mutations in CADASIL and its clinical features and pathogenesis. (DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199610313351804)
- A review article by Tikka and Mykkänen discusses the genetics, pathology, and clinical features of CADASIL. (DOI: 10.1080/14737175.2020.1765075)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**