---
title: "AGXT2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "**Gene:** AGXT2"
tags: ['AGXT2', 'genetics', 'metabolism', 'PH3', 'oxalate', 'kidneystones', 'treatment', 'mutation']
---

**Gene:** AGXT2

**Function for gene:** AGXT2 encodes a protein that belongs to the alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase family and functions in the metabolism of amino acids, glyoxylate, and oxalate.

**External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
- HGNC: 29921
- NCBI Entrez: 131565
- Ensembl: ENSG00000172026
- OMIM: 604285
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BYV1
- Genomic location: Chromosome 5q34

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**
- There are several amino acid substitutions reported for AGXT2.
- One example is p.Gly41Glu (rs61747728), which is a missense mutation resulting in an amino acid change from glycine to glutamate at position 41.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**
- No somatic mutations with dbSNP ID have been reported for AGXT2.

**Related disease:** 
- Primary hyperoxaluria type 3 (PH3) is caused by mutations in AGXT2 gene, leading to an overproduction and accumulation of oxalate in the body, which can cause kidney stones, kidney damage, and other health problems.

**Treatment and prognosis:** 
- Treatment for PH3 typically involves reducing oxalate intake through diet and administering medication to reduce oxalate production in the liver.
- If left untreated, PH3 can lead to kidney failure and other serious health complications.

**Drug response:**
- The drug pyridoxine has been found to be effective in treating some patients with PH3, as it acts as a cofactor for the AGXT2 enzyme and can help reduce oxalate production.

**Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
- Monico CG, Rossetti S (2012) Molecular basis of primary hyperoxaluria: clues to innovative treatments. Urolithiasis 40(5): 429-436. 
DOI: [10.1007/s00240-012-0458-8]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00240-012-0458-8))

- Belostotsky R, Frishberg Y (2015) Primary hyperoxaluria type 3. GeneReviews. 
DOI: [10.1002/978-1-68277-064-6_15]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/978-1-68277-064-6_15))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**