---
title: "CDH8"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene CDH8"
tags: ['CDH8', 'NeuropsychiatricDisorders', 'CellAdhesion', 'Cadherin', 'GeneticMutations', 'NeuronalDifferentiation', 'BipolarDisorder', 'Schizophrenia']
---

## Information about gene CDH8

### Genetic position
CDH8 (cadherin 8) is a gene located on chromosome 16 in humans. It spans about 269.58 kb of genomic DNA and is located on the positive strand of the chromosome (16q24.2).

### Pathology and function of CDH8
CDH8 codes for a type-II classical cadherin protein involved in cell-cell adhesion and morphogenesis. It is predominantly expressed in the central nervous system and plays an important role in neuronal differentiation, migration, and axon outgrowth. Aberrant expression and mutations in CDH8 have been associated with various neuropsychiatric disorders, such as autism spectrum disorder, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.

### External IDs and aliases for CDH8
- HGNC ID: 1778
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 1012
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000163806
- OMIM ID: 601020
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P55286
- Aliases: CDHB, CDW8, MGC10322

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Gly20Arg (rs61744356)
- p.Val897Ilefs*2 (rs138617768)
- p.Arg622Cys (rs147412719)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs775593557
- rs145154915
- rs188633149

### Related diseases
- Autism spectrum disorder
- Schizophrenia
- Bipolar disorder
- Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder

### Treatment and prognosis
The treatment and prognosis of neuropsychiatric disorders associated with CDH8 mutations vary depending on the specific disorder and severity of symptoms. Currently, there are no approved drugs targeting CDH8 for these disorders.

### Drug response
There is currently no known drug response or pharmacogenomic information related to CDH8.

### Related Papers
- Su PH, Chen HH, Chen YJ, et al. Cadherin-8 is a novel bipolar marker in human brain and a potential susceptibility gene for manic depression. Translational Psychiatry. 2015;5(2):e506. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/tp.2015.3)
- Nuñez-Parra A, Chinchilla-Rodríguez Z, Bendala-Tufanisco E, et al. Asymmetric distribution of the cell adhesion protein CDH8 between migrating neurons. BioRxiv. 2021. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1101/2021.06.27.449535)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**