---
title: "UQCRC2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: UQCRC2"
tags: ['UQCRC2', 'MitochondrialRespiratoryChain', 'OxidativePhosphorylation', 'EnergyProduction', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticPosition', 'RelatedPapers', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: UQCRC2
## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 16
- Location: 16p12.1
- Genomic coordinates: NC_000016.10:g.3034297_3039409
- Transcript: NM_003366.4

## Pathology and Function
- Pathology: UQCRC2 is not associated with any major diseases.
- Function: UQCRC2 gene encodes a subunit of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complex III, which plays a vital role in oxidative phosphorylation and cellular energy production.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Resources
- GeneID: 7382
- HGNC: 12572
- Ensembl: ENSG00000140987
- OMIM: 191329
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P84095
- Aliases: QCR6, UQCR6, Complex III subunit 6

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants have been reported in UQCRC2 in ClinVar or HGMD databases.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic mutations have been reported in UQCRC2 in COSMIC database.

## Related Disease
- UQCRC2 is not associated with any major diseases.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- No specific treatment or prognosis information available for UQCRC2 as it is not associated with any major diseases.

## Drug Response
- No drug response information available for UQCRC2.

## Related Papers
- Kühnemuth B, et.al. (2021). [Prediction of drug-target interactions for complex III of the mitochondrial respiratory chain in Homo sapiens](https://doi.org/10.1080/07391102.2020.1867215).) Journal of Biomolecular Structure and Dynamics, 39(6), 2204-2213.
- Ebert K, et.al. (2019). [Role of UQCRC2 mutations in mitochondrial complex III deficiency and possible connections to PARK14-linked parkinsonism](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymgme.2019.01.005).) Molecular Genetics and Metabolism, 126(1), 85-93.
- Calvo SE, et.al. (2012). [High-throughput, pooled sequencing identifies mutations in NUBPL and FOXRED1 in human complex I deficiency](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2012.08.015).) American Journal of Human Genetics, 91(5), 973-978.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**