---
title: "TMEM67"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information:"
tags: ['TMEM67', 'JoubertSyndrome', 'MeckelSyndrome', 'PrimaryCilium', 'MissenseMutation', 'Prognosis', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'Ciliopathies']
---

## Gene Information:
- Gene name: TMEM67
- Function: This gene encodes a transmembrane protein which is a component of the primary cilium and plays a key role in the development of various organs.
- External IDs: HGNC: 25150; NCBI Entrez: 91147; Ensembl: ENSG00000083256; OMIM: 609884; UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NEM8 
- Genomic location: Chromosome 8: 61,528,283 - 61,568,143 (GRch38)

## Mutation Information:
- AA mutation list: There are multiple mutations reported in this gene. Some of these include p.R89Q, p.A193T, p.K395E, p.K545N etc.
- Mutation type: Missense mutation
- dbSNP ID: rs121909244, rs727503394, rs137853308 etc.

## Somatic Mutations:
- There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels of this gene.

## Related Diseases:
- Joubert Syndrome
- Meckel Syndrome

## Treatment and Prognosis:
- Currently, there is no cure for Joubert syndrome or Meckel syndrome. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
- The prognosis for individuals with Joubert syndrome or Meckel syndrome varies depending on the severity and extent of the associated symptoms.

## Drug response:
- As of now, there is no known drug response for mutations in the TMEM67 gene.

## Related Papers:
- Halbritter, J., Bizet, A. A., Schmidts, M., Porath, J. D., Braun, D. A., Gee, H. Y., ... & Otto, E. A. (2013). Defects in the IFT-B component IFT172 cause Jeune and Mainzer-Saldino syndromes in humans. The American Journal of Human Genetics, 93(5), 915-925. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2013.09.012)
- Wheway, G., Abdelhamed, Z., Natarajan, S., & Toomes, C. (2018). Inglehearn CF, Johnson CA. The Intersection of Bardet-Biedl syndrome with ciliopathies and beyond. Cold Spring Harbor perspectives in biology, 10(6), a028174. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1101/cshperspect.a028174)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**