---
title: "MYOCD"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: MYOCD"
tags: ['MYOCD', 'SmoothMuscle', 'TranscriptionalCoactivator', 'CardiovascularDisorders', 'GeneticMutations', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis', 'ResearchPapers']
---

## Gene: MYOCD

### Genomic Location and External IDs

- Chromosome: 17
- Start Position: 55,692,253 bp
- End Position: 55,727,623 bp
- Strand Orientation: Plus strand
- Gene ID: 93338
- Aliases: Myocardin, Nhlh3, Nkx6.1

### Function for Gene

MYOCD encodes a transcriptional coactivator that plays a crucial role in smooth muscle cell differentiation and the regulation of smooth muscle contractility. The protein binds to serum response factor (SRF) and enhances the transcription of downstream target genes involved in smooth muscle cell differentiation and function, including smooth muscle alpha actin (ACTA2), smooth muscle myosin heavy chain (MYH11), and Calponin (CNN1).

### Related Diseases

Mutations in MYOCD have been associated with a range of cardiovascular and neuromuscular disorders, including aortic aneurysm, patent ductus arteriosus, thoracic aortic aneurysm and dissection, autosomal dominant retinal vasculopathy with cerebral leukodystrophy, and familial thoracic aortic aneurysm with dissection and patent ductus arteriosus.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID

- No missense mutations reported in dbSNP
- Two nonsynonymous coding SNPs:
  - rs45496295 (p.Gln374Glu)
  - rs114776950 (p.Asp107Asn)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- No somatic SNVs or InDels reported in dbSNP

### Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment options for patients with MYOCD mutations vary depending on the specific disease manifestation. Prognosis is also dependent on the specific condition, with some associated with serious and life-threatening complications.

### Drug Response

Currently, there are no drugs specifically targeting MYOCD, but some drugs may indirectly impact MYOCD-related pathways, such as angiotensin II receptor blockers and beta-blockers, which are used in the treatment of aortic aneurysms.

### External Sites

- HGNC: 15860
- NCBI Entrez: 93649
- Ensembl: ENSG00000108468
- OMIM: 608958
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q99076

### Related Papers

- Subject: Identification of mutations in MYOCD in aortic aneurysms and dissections
  - Author: Zhu L, Vranckx R, Khau Van Kien P, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1112761
- Subject: Novel mutations in MYOCD associated with a patent ductus arteriosus and thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections
  - Author: Akutagawa Y, Nariai N, Nagasaki M, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2019.12.007
- Subject: MYOCD haploinsufficiency increases susceptibility to pathological vascular remodeling
  - Author: Norata GD, Caligiuri G, Chavakis T, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1172/JCI92594

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**