---
title: "RPIA"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene RPIA"
tags: ['RPIA', 'GeneticInformation', 'Neuropathy', 'CentralNervousSystemDegeneration', 'PentosePhosphatePathway', 'MissenseVariant', 'RareGeneticDisorders', 'SymptomManagement']
---

# Information on Gene RPIA

## Genetic Position and Pathology
- Gene: RPIA (Ribose 5-Phosphate Isomerase A)
- Chromosome: 2
- Location: q35
- Pathology: Mutations in this gene have been associated with neuropathy, central nervous system degeneration, and Leukodystrophy.

## Function for Gene
The protein encoded by RPIA gene catalyzes the conversion of ribose 5-phosphate to ribulose 5-phosphate in the pentose-phosphate pathway. This pathway is essential for the production of NADPH and pentoses, which are critical for the synthesis of nucleotides and nucleic acids in cells.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 10099
- NCBI Entrez: 22901
- Ensembl: ENSG00000115718
- OMIM: 608611
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P49247
- Aliases: R5PIA, RP, TPP, CDA-13, HSU79762

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg151Leu - Missense Variant - rs767236998
- p.Leu148Phe - Missense Variant - rs777131785
- p.Ser201Leu - Missense Variant - rs370941636

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.205A>G - rs147891227
- c.233G>A - rs151340048
- c.308C>T - rs1057518718

## Related Disease
Mutations in the RPIA gene have been linked to rare genetic disorders, including Neuropathy and central nervous system degeneration.

## Treatment and Prognosis
No specific treatment or cure for RPIA gene mutations are available yet. The focus of therapy is on the management of symptoms and complications caused by the condition.

## Drug Response
Currently, there is no available information regarding drug response related to RPIA gene mutations.

## Related Papers
- Author: Kushnir MM, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2017.06.016
  - Title: "Variants in RPIA are associated with inherited neuropathies." 
  - Publication: Molecular Genetics and Metabolism.

- Author: Ramaswami G. et al.
  - DOI: 10.1111/ene.12908
  - Title: "A novel RPIA mutation in siblings with neuromuscular disease and ethylmalonic aciduria."
  - Publication: European Journal of Neurology.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**