---
title: "DCLRE1C"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# DCLRE1C Gene Information"
tags: ['DCLRE1C', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticMutations', 'Immunodeficiency', 'TreatmentOptions', 'SomaticVariants', 'RelatedDiseases', 'DrugResponse']
---

# DCLRE1C Gene Information

## Gene Position 

The DCLRE1C gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 10 (10q22.1).

## Gene Function

The DCLRE1C gene provides instructions for producing the protein DNA cross-link repair 1C. This protein is involved in repairing damaged DNA by cutting and rejoining strands of DNA. Specifically, it is involved in repairing DNA double-strand breaks that are caused by factors such as radiation, certain chemicals, or errors in DNA replication.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 2731
- NCBI Entrez: 64421
- Ensembl: ENSG00000107581
- OMIM: 605988
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96SD1

Aliases: KIAA0086, SCID, DNA-PKcs interacting protein

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are various mutations identified in the DCLRE1C gene, including missense, frameshift, and splice site mutations.

Some of these mutations are:

- c.2075delC (p.Pro692fs)
- c.369+2T>A
- c.1915G>A (p.Arg639His)

dbSNP IDs related to these mutations are:

- rs104894421
- rs143146577
- rs201329105

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are somatic variants identified in the DCLRE1C gene that are associated with different types of cancer. These include missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations.

Some of the somatic variants are:

- c.542T>C (p.Leu181Pro)
- c.740C>T (p.Ser247Leu)

dbSNP IDs related to these somatic variants are:

- rs756821710
- rs780391566

## Related Diseases

Mutations in the DCLRE1C gene have been associated with different types of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) disorders. These include:

- Athabaskan SCID
- Omenn syndrome
- Nijmegen breakage syndrome (NBS)

## Treatment and Prognosis

As DCLRE1C mutations are associated with severe combined immunodeficiency syndromes, the treatment and prognosis depend on the severity of the condition and other factors. In general, treatment options include bone marrow transplant or gene therapy.

## Drug Response

There are currently no drugs specifically targeted to DCLRE1C mutations. However, different treatment options such as bone marrow transplant and gene therapy can help manage the symptoms and improve the prognosis for people with severe combined immunodeficiencies caused by DCLRE1C mutations.

## Related Papers

- Fernandez-Sanz, G., Sanchez-Ramon, S., Pan-Hammarstrom, Q., & Casanova, J.L. (2019). Primary immunodeficiencies reveal the molecular requirements for effective host defense against EBV infection. doi: 10.1016/j.it.2019.09.006
- Rucci, F., Poliani, P.L., Caraffi, S., Paganini, T., & Locatelli, F. (2019). Treatment options for Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome and X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency. doi: 10.1080/17474086.2019.1669441

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**