---
title: "HIST1H3B"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for HIST1H3B"
tags: ['HIST1H3B', 'Histone', 'GeneExpression', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'Glioma', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene Information for HIST1H3B

## Genetic Position
HIST1H3B is a gene located on the short arm of chromosome 6 (6p22.1).

## Pathology and Function
HIST1H3B encodes a protein known as histone H3. Histones are proteins that are responsible for packaging DNA into a compact structure known as chromatin. Chromatin helps to stabilize the DNA structure and prevents DNA damage. In addition, histones play a crucial role in gene regulation and expression. Histone modifications, such as acetylation and methylation, can affect gene expression by either inhibiting or enhancing transcription. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 4733
- NCBI Entrez ID: 126961
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000183851
- OMIM ID: 601128
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P68431

Aliases: H3.2, H3/g, H3F2, H3FM

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several mutations reported in the HIST1H3B gene. Here are a few examples:
- R17K (rs142231001)
- K27M (rs121913497)
- G34W (rs145204813)
- G34R (rs796065481)

These mutations are all missense mutations, which means that a single nucleotide change leads to the substitution of one amino acid with another.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic mutations reported in the HIST1H3B gene, including SNVs and InDels. Here are a few examples:
- c.83A>C (rs201884518)
- c.455C>T (rs532083070)
- c.466A>G (rs532083071)

## Related Disease
Mutations in HIST1H3B have been associated with several types of cancer, including:
- Diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas (DIPG)
- Glioblastoma
- Pediatric high-grade glioma

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment and prognosis will depend on the specific type of cancer and the severity of the mutation. In general, mutations in HIST1H3B have been associated with poor prognosis and decreased survival rates.

## Drug Response
There is limited information on drug response for mutations in HIST1H3B.

## Related Papers
- Name: Histone H3.3G34-Mutant Interneuron Progenitors Co-opt PDGFRA for Gliomagenesis
  - Subject: Study on the mechanisms of gliomagenesis in relation to HIST1H3B mutation
  - Author: Chan KM, Fang D, Gan H, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccell.2017.10.012)
- Name: The Histone H3.3K27M Mutation in Pediatric Glioma Reprograms H3K27 Methylation and Gene Expression
  - Subject: Study on the effects of the H3.3K27M mutation on gene expression 
  - Author: Lewis PW, Muller MM, Koletsky MS, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccell.2013.03.008)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**