---
title: "G6PC"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene G6PC"
tags: ['GeneG6PC', 'GlucoseMetabolism', 'GlycogenStorageDisease', 'EnzymeComplex', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Hyperlipidemia', 'Hyperuricemia']
---

# Gene G6PC

## Information

Gene G6PC encodes the catalytic subunit of glucose-6-phosphatase. This enzyme complex is responsible for the final step of gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis, which is the conversion of glucose-6-phosphate to glucose. G6PC is expressed in the liver, kidney, and small intestine. Mutations in this gene can cause glycogen storage disease type Ia, a rare autosomal recessive disorder that affects glucose metabolism. 

## External IDs

- HGNC: 4078
- NCBI Entrez: 2538
- Ensembl: ENSG00000114458
- OMIM: 613742
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P35575

## Mutations

- c.233G>A(p.Arg78His), rs137853452
- c.169T>C(p.Leu57Pro), rs137853453
- c.547C>G(p.Pro183Arg), rs137853450

## Related Disease

Glycogen storage disease type Ia

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no cure for glycogen storage disease type Ia, but its symptoms can be managed through a strict diet and medication. The goal of treatment is to maintain normal blood glucose levels and prevent hypoglycemia while promoting growth and development. With proper management, individuals with this disease can lead relatively normal lives.

## Drug response

There is no specific drug treatment for glycogen storage disease type Ia; however, some medications can be used to control hyperlipidemia, hyperuricemia, and other associated symptoms.

## Related Papers

- Janecke, A. R. (2008). "Glycogen Storage Disease Type Ia/Hers Disease". GeneReviews®. University of Washington, Seattle. 
- Kishnani, P. S., et al. (2014). "Diagnosis and management of glycogen storage disease type I: a practice guideline of the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics". Genetics in Medicine. 16(11): e1-e50. [DOI: 10.1038/gim.2014.128]

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**