---
title: "MGAT2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene MGAT2"
tags: ['MGAT2', 'ProstateCancer', 'Glycosyltransferase', 'N-glycanProcessing', 'MissenseMutation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'GenomicAnalyses']
---

## Information about Gene MGAT2

### Genetic Position
- Gene Name: MGAT2
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 14q21-q22
- Transcript ID: NM_005370.3

### Pathology
- MGAT2 gene is associated with susceptibility to prostate cancer in males.
- Dysfunction in this gene has also been linked to several other diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease, chronic hepatitis C, and diabetes.

### Function
- The protein encoded by MGAT2 gene is a Golgi membrane-bound glycosyltransferase that adds N- acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) to glycosylated proteins.
- This process, termed N-glycan processing and modification, is essential for normal cell growth and differentiation, and protein folding.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 7030
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 4245
- Ensembl: ENSG00000129757
- OMIM: 602616
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q10469
- Aliases: GnT-2, MGAT3, GnT-II

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
| AA Mutation | dbSNP ID | Mutation Type |
| -----------| --------| --------------|
| R158G | rs11540568 | Missense |
| A251T | rs3745558 | Missense |
| V341L | rs3817315 | Missense |
| G372V | rs10490864 | Missense |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no somatic SNVs/InDels reported yet.

### Related Disease
- Prostate cancer

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment for prostate cancer may include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, hormone therapy, and immunotherapy.
- The prognosis for individuals with prostate cancer varies depending on the stage of the cancer, the individual's age and overall health, and the presence of any other medical conditions.

### Drug Response
-  There is no known drug that specifically targets MGAT2.
- Drugs targeting other glycosyltransferases involved in N-glycan processing such as N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase GnT-III and GnT-V may indirectly affect MGAT2 function.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Genomic analyses identify prostate cancer risk variants and impaired TGFβ signaling in UK men
  - DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004805
  - Author: The PRACTICAL consortium
- Subject: N-glycan modulation by Gnt-III is crucial for proper IGF-1 receptor signaling and vascular smooth muscle cell function
  - DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M112.376246
  - Author: Dhaval P. Bhatt et al.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**