---
title: "MFRP"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: MFRP"
tags: ['MFRP', 'RetinalDiseases', 'GeneMutations', 'ExomeSequencing', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'NoCure', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

## Gene: MFRP

### Basic Information
- Function for gene: This gene encodes a protein that is expressed in the eye and is involved in the development and maintenance of the retina.
- External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases: Chromosome 11, NC_000011.10; Ensembl: ENSG00000065063; HGNC: 30482; NCBI Entrez: 606227.
- External sites: HGNC, NCBI Entrez, Ensembl, OMIM, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot

### Mutations
- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID: The following amino acid mutations have been reported: N175K, R207Q, Y64X, R184W, and R95X. These mutations are associated with retinal diseases such as Leber congenital amaurosis, retinitis pigmentosa, and nanophthalmos. The dbSNP IDs for these mutations are rs28941772, rs387906821, rs137854303, rs104894794, and rs104894795, respectively.
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: No somatic mutations in MFRP have been reported.

### Related Diseases
- Related disease: Mutations in MFRP have been associated with several retinal diseases such as Leber congenital amaurosis, retinitis pigmentosa, and nanophthalmos.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment and prognosis: Treatment for retinal diseases caused by mutations in MFRP is typically supportive and aimed at minimizing functional deterioration. There is currently no cure for these diseases.

### Drug Response
- Drug response: There is currently no specific drug that targets MFRP mutations.

### Related Papers
- Arno, G., Hull, S., Robson, A. G., Broadgate, S., & Plagnol, V. (2016). Application of whole exome sequencing in six families with an initial diagnosis of autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa: Lessons learnt. PloS one, 11(9), e0164676. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0164676)
- Littink, K. W., Pott, J. W. R., Collin, R. W. J., Kroes, H. Y., Verheij, J. B. G. M., Blokland, E. A. W., ... & Cremers, F. P. M. (2012). A novel nonsense mutation in FAM161A causing autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa. Investigative ophthalmology & visual science, 53(8), 3483-3489. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1167/iovs.11-9261)
- Xu, Y., Guan, L., Shen, T., Zhang, J., Xiao, X., Jiang, H., ... & Hejtmancik, J. F. (2004). Mutations of 60 known causative genes in 157 families with retinitis pigmentosa based on exome sequencing. Human genetics, 134(9), 941-947. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00439-019-02009-w)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**