---
title: "ETFA"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ETFA"
tags: ['ETFA', 'GlutaricAcidemiaType2', 'MultipleAcylCoADehydrogenaseDeficiency', 'MitochondrialBetaOxidation', 'MissenseMutations', 'Riboflavin', 'LowProteinDiet', 'SupportiveTreatment']
---

# Gene ETFA

## Genetic Position:

ETFA is located on the short arm of chromosome 15 (15p25.2) between the base pairs 7,807,683 and 7,863,714.

## Pathology:

Mutations in the ETFA gene have been associated with glutaric acidemia type II (GA2) or multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (MADD). GA2 is a rare autosomal recessive metabolic disorder caused by a deficiency of electron transfer flavoprotein (ETF) or electron transfer flavoprotein dehydrogenase (ETFDH), which are essential components of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway.

## Function:

The ETFA gene encodes the alpha-subunit of the electron transfer flavoprotein, which acts as a mobile electron carrier in the mitochondrial beta-oxidation of fatty acids and amino acids, as well as in catabolism of xenobiotics.

## External IDs and Aliases:

- HGNC: 3464
- NCBI Entrez: 2108
- Ensembl: ENSG00000156113
- OMIM: 608053
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P13804

Aliases: MADD, MTP deficiency, alpha-subunit of electron transfer flavoprotein, ETF-alpha, ETFA_HUMAN

## AA Mutation List:

Some of the reported missense mutations in ETFA gene associated with GA2 are:

- c.842G>A (p.Gly281Arg) rs121908178
- c.574G>A (p.Gly192Ser) rs121908179
- c.527G>A (p.Asp176Asn) rs121908180
- c.751G>C (p.Ala251Pro) rs121908181 

## Somatic SNVs/InDels:

There are 809 SNVs/InDels reported in ETFA in the COSMIC database.

## Related disease:

Mutations in ETFA gene are associated with Glutaric acidemia type 2 (GA2) or multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (MADD).

## Treatment and Prognosis:

There is currently no cure for GA2, and treatments are mainly symptomatic and supportive. Treatment options often include riboflavin, L-carnitine, and a low-protein, high carbohydrate diet.

## Drug response:

There is limited information about drug response regarding ETFA gene.

## Related papers:

- Kim JH, Lee BH, Kim YM, et al. Novel ETFDH mutations in Korean patients with multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenation deficiency. BMC Med Genet. 2014;15:129. Published 2014 Dec 3. doi:10.1186/s12881-014-0129-4
- Liang WC, Ohkuma A, Hayashi YK, López LC, Hirano M, Nonaka I, Noguchi S. ETFDH mutations, CoQ10 levels, and respiratory chain activities in patients with riboflavin-responsive multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency. Neuromuscul Disord. 2009 Jan;19(1):212-6. doi: 10.1016/j.nmd.2008.10.002. Epub 2008 Nov 28. PMID: 19041592.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**