---
title: "PON3"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information Analysis: Gene PON3"
tags: ['GenePON3', 'Detoxification', 'OxidativeStress', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'MutationList']
---

# Genetic Information Analysis: Gene PON3

## Overview
Gene PON3 (Paraoxonase 3) is located on chromosome 7q21.3 and is made up of 6 exons. It is primarily expressed in the liver, but can also be found in heart, lung, kidney, and pancreas tissues. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the detoxification of organophosphates and may also play a role in protecting against oxidative stress.

## Function
The primary function of Gene PON3 is to detoxify organophosphates and protect against oxidative stress. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to a family of enzymes known as paraoxonases, which are involved in the hydrolysis of organophosphates. In addition to its detoxification role, PON3 has also been shown to protect against oxidative stress by preventing the oxidation of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 9179
- NCBI Entrez: 5445
- Ensembl: ENSG00000106633
- OMIM: 602462
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q15166

## AA Mutation List
There are multiple mutations listed for Gene PON3 in the NCBI dbSNP database:
- c.205C>T (p.Pro69Ser) rs202689787
- c.469C>T (p.Arg157Cys) rs3730550
- c.525C>T (p.Ala175Val) rs188574693
- c.632A>G (p.Asn211Ser) rs58119559
- c.800G>A (p.Gln267=) rs200863626

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
There are currently no somatic SNVs or InDels listed for Gene PON3 in the NCBI dbSNP database.

## Related Diseases
Mutations in Gene PON3 have been associated with a range of diseases, including:
- Atherosclerosis
- Coronary heart disease
- Diabetes
- Macular degeneration
- Alzheimer's disease

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no specific treatment targeted towards PON3 mutations or deficiencies. Treatment is typically focused on managing the associated symptoms and reducing the risk of complications. The prognosis for individuals with PON3-related diseases varies depending on the specific condition and severity of the associated symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is currently very limited information available regarding drug response in individuals with PON3 mutations.

## References
- Directive, T. M. (2017). The NCBI Handbook [Internet]. National Library of Medicine, National Center for Biotechnology Information (US).
- GeneCard. (2021). PON3 Gene [Internet]. Weizmann Institute of Science. Available from [Click](https://www.genecards.org/cgi-bin/carddisp.pl?gene=PON3)
- Hendrickson, S. L., Zhu, Y., Wang, S., Li, Q., Qian, D., Liu, G., . . . Quyyumi, A. A. (2011). Polymorphisms of the PON Gene Cluster Are Associated with Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia. Disease Markers, 30(2-3), 111–122. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3233/DMA-2011-0793)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**