---
title: "PPP6C"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene PPP6C"
tags: ['PPP6C', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticPosition', 'SomaticMutations', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene PPP6C

## Genetic Position
PPP6C, also known as Serine/threonine-protein phosphatase 6 catalytic subunit (PP6C), is a gene located on chromosome 9q22.31.

## Function
PPP6C encodes a protein phosphatase involved in several cellular processes, including DNA damage response, cell cycle regulation, and apoptosis. PPP6C is a catalytic subunit of serine/threonine-protein phosphatase 6 (PP6), which is involved in dephosphorylation of Serine and Threonine residues. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs: HGNC 15995, NCBI Entrez Gene 5532, Ensembl ENSG00000178904, OMIM 612725, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot Q8N5C8
- Aliases: PP6C, PPV1C

## AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID
There is a mutation in the PPP6C gene that results in a single amino acid substitution:
- L22F: rs201233955

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic mutations in PPP6C listed in the COSMIC database. Some examples are:
- C722T: rs553573456
- G505A: rs139417671
- C476T: rs146810971

## Related Disease
Research has implicated PPP6C in several diseases, such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and glioblastoma. In particular, mutations or decreased expression of PPP6C have been associated with CLL development and progression.

## Treatment and Prognosis
More research is needed to determine the clinical implications of PPP6C mutations in disease, including treatment and prognosis. 

## Drug Response
There is no standard drug treatment or intervention specifically targeted toward PPP6C mutations. 

## Related Papers
- Subject: PPP6C mutations and CLL
- Author Name: Puente XS
- DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.2952)

- Subject: PPP6C mutations and glioblastoma
- Author Name: Jiao Y, Killela PJ
- DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.2760)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**