---
title: "MT ND6"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene MT-ND6"
tags: ['MTND6', 'MitochondrialDNA', 'NADHdehydrogenase', 'Lebershereditaryopticneuropathy', 'Mitochondrialencephalomyopathy', 'Respiratorychain', 'Mitochondrialdisease', 'Symptomatictreatment']
---

# Information about Gene MT-ND6

**Genetic Position:** MT-ND6 gene is located in the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) molecule, specifically in the heavy strand region from position 14580 to 14747.

**Pathology:** Mutations in the MT-ND6 gene have been associated with several pathological conditions, including Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy and mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes.

**Function:** This gene encodes for the mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenase subunit 6 (ND6) protein, which is a component of complex I (NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase) of the mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation system. ND6 protein is responsible for the transfer of electrons from NADH to ubiquinone, which is a crucial step in the generation of ATP in the respiratory chain.

**External IDs:**
- HGNC: 7455
- NCBI Entrez: 4546
- Ensembl: ENSG00000214548
- OMIM: 516006
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P03923

**Aliases:** MTND6, NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase subunit ND6, ND6, ATP synthase membrane subunit 9.

**AA Mutation List:**

| AA Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --------- | ------------- | -------- |
| L18Q | Missense | rs72806436 |
| L19F | Missense | rs41280344 |
| Q20P | Missense | rs112756185 |
| C25F | Missense | rs28937592 |
| W27* | Nonsense | rs121908710 |
| Y33C | Missense | rs4646102 |
| A43D | Missense | rs41313044 |
| T45A | Missense | rs28936687 |
| L54F | Missense | rs267606745 |
| A66G | Missense | rs267606749 |
| L72F | Missense | rs150319524 |
| G77A | Missense | rs28937594 |
| Y85C | Missense | rs267606752 |
| P86L | Missense | rs267606753 |
| G88S | Missense | rs267606755 |
| L109F | Missense | rs267606760 |
| G113D | Missense | rs267606762 |
| G116S | Missense | rs903182 |
| L123F | Missense | rs267606764 |
| L123I | Missense | rs267606763 |

**Somatic SNVs/InDels:**

No somatic mutations have been reported in the MT-ND6 gene.

**Related Diseases:** 
- Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy
- Mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes

**Treatment and Prognosis:** There is currently no cure for mitochondrial diseases caused by MT-ND6 mutations. Treatment is usually symptomatic and aimed at alleviating specific symptoms. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the condition and the specific mutation involved.

**Drug Response:** There is limited information on drug response related to MT-ND6 mutations.

**References:**
- Chinnery, P. F. (2015). Mitochondrial disease in adults: what's old and what's new?. EMBO molecular medicine, 7(12), 1503-1512. DOI: 10.15252/emmm.201505488
- Entrez Gene: MT-ND6 NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase subunit ND6 [Homo sapiens (human)]. ([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/4546))
- Mitochondrial complex I deficiency. ([Click](https://rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/5667/mitochondrial-complex-i-deficiency))
- MT-ND6 - NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase subunit ND6 - Homo sapiens (Human). ([Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/P03923))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**