---
title: "BBS1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene BBS1"
tags: ['BBS1', 'BardetBiedlSyndrome', 'PrimaryCilia', 'Mutation', 'RareDisease', 'SupportiveCare', 'NoCure', 'BasalBodyDysfunction']
---

## Gene BBS1
- **Function:** BBS1 is a member of the Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) family of proteins. It is involved in the primary cilia formation, which is important for various cellular processes, including signal transduction, and organ development.
- **External IDs:**
  - HGNC: 994
  - NCBI Entrez: 582
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000108821
  - OMIM: 209901
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P78363
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
	- c.1169G>A (p.Trp390Ter) rs80338996
	- c.116G>A (p.Trp39Ter) rs121908823
	- c.160delC (p.Ser54ValfsTer21) rs80338997
- **Related Diseases:** Bardet-Biedl syndrome 1 (BBS1), a rare autosomal recessive disorder, is caused by mutations in the BBS1 gene. It is characterized by obesity, vision loss, polydactyly, kidney abnormalities, and intellectual disability.
- **Treatment and prognosis:** Management of Bardet-Biedl Syndrome is mainly supportive and requires care from multiple specialists depending on the affected organs. There is no cure available for BBS presently. 
- **Drug Response:** At present, there is no specific drug developed for treating BBS. Some drugs may be prescribed for certain symptoms and conditions that are part of the disease.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported in the BBS1 gene.
- **Author Name, DOI links to related papers:**
	- Ansley SJ, Badano JL, Blacque OE, et al. Basal body dysfunction is a likely cause of pleiotropic Bardet-Biedl syndrome. Nature. 2003;425(6958):628-633. doi:10.1038/nature02030
	- Forsythe E, Kenny J, Bacchelli C, Beales PL. Managing Bardet-Biedl Syndrome-Now and in the Future. Front Pediatr. 2018;6:23. doi:10.3389/fped.2018.00023

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**