---
title: "WDR19"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for WDR19"
tags: ['WDR19', 'Ciliopathies', 'TransitionZone', 'GeneticMutation', 'Nephronophthisis', 'ShortRibThoracicDysplasia', 'AsphyxiatingThoracicDystrophy', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene Information for WDR19

## Genetic Position
WDR19 is located on the long arm of chromosome 4 at position 4p14. 

## Pathology 
Mutations in the WDR19 gene cause various ciliopathies including Short-Rib Thoracic Dysplasia, Nephronophthisis, and Asphyxiating Thoracic Dystrophy. 

## Function
WDR19 encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family which is involved in the formation of cilia, microscopic hair-like structures found on the surface of cells. In particular, WDR19 is necessary for the formation and function of the transition zone, a key structure for ciliary signaling, vesicle trafficking, and receptor localization. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 26800
- NCBI Entrez: 9656
- Ensembl: ENSG00000174462
- OMIM: 610852
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H4M8

Aliases: SRPS13, TTC21B, CILD13 

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID 
- c.5458_5459delCT, frameshift, rs864309598
- c.6818G>A, p.Trp2273*, rs398122958 

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported in the WDR19 gene in dbSNP.

## Related Disease 
- Short-Rib Thoracic Dysplasia
- Nephronophthisis
- Asphyxiating Thoracic Dystrophy 

## Treatment and Prognosis 
Treatment for ciliopathies caused by mutations in WDR19 is supportive and focused on the symptoms triggered by the disease. Specific treatment options may vary depending on the disease type. Prognosis can range from mild to severe and depend on the severity of the disease.

## Drug Response
There is no specific drug treatment available for ailments caused by mutations in the WDR19 gene.

## Related Papers 
- Author Name: Davis EE, Zhang Q, Liu Q, Diplas BH, Davey LM, Hartley J, Stoetzel C, Szymanska K, Ramaswami G, Logan CV.
  DOI: [10.1038/ng.1027](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.1027))
- Author Name: Schmidts M, Hou Y, Cortes CR, Mans DA, Huber C, Boldt K, Patel M, van Reeuwijk J, Plaza JM, van Beersum SE, et al. 
  DOI: [10.1016/j.devcel.2013.11.012](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.devcel.2013.11.012))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**