---
title: "FKBP1A"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene FKBP1A Information"
tags: ['FKBP1A', 'GeneticVariations', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'SignalTransduction', 'PsychiatricDisorders', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'MolecularMechanisms']
---

# Gene FKBP1A Information

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function:

- **Genetic Position:** FKBP1A gene is located on the long arm of human chromosome 12 (12q13.12).
- **Pathology:** Several studies suggest that FKBP1A mutations may be associated with various diseases including anxiety, depression, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. 
- **Function:** The FKBP1A gene encodes FK506-binding proteins, which are involved in signal transduction pathways, protein folding, and immunosuppression. 


## Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases:

- **Gene ID:** 2288
- **Aliases:** 
    - FKBP12
    - FKBP-12
    - FKBP-1A
    - FKBP12.6
    - FKBP1
    - PPIASE

- **Genomic Location:** Human chromosome 12, q13.12


## External IDs and Sites:

- **HGNC:** 3803
- **NCBI Entrez:** 2288
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000135446
- **OMIM:** 600068
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q00978


## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:

- rs121908667 (p.Ile90Met)
- rs118203998 (p.Ile56Thr)
- rs72650272 (p.Ile56Leu)
- rs11921054 (p.Asp74Gly)
- rs45519040 (p.Arg98Gln)

Most of these are missense mutations.


## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

- rs146087338 (p.Pro128Leu)
- rs143119933 (p.Ser99Pro)
- rs191171276 (p.Asn47Ser)


## Related Disease:

Several studies suggest that FKBP1A mutations may be associated with various diseases including anxiety, depression, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. Mutations in this gene have also been associated with primary hyperparathyroidism. 


## Treatment and Prognosis:

There are currently no specific treatments for FKBP1A-associated disorders. Treatment options mainly focus on managing symptoms with the use of medications such as antipsychotics, antidepressants, and mood stabilizers. The prognosis for these disorders varies depending on the severity of symptoms, and response to treatment.


## Drug Response:

There is limited information available on the drug response related to FKBP1A.


## Related Papers:

- Subject: Bioinformatics analysis of the genetic variations in FKBP1A gene and their association with bipolar disorder
  - Author: Gönen M, Tamer L, Yüce H, Aslan M
  - DOI: 10.1080/21678421.2020.1747874
- Subject: FKBP1A gene involvement in the etiology of schizophrenia
  - Author: Núñez YZ, Papiol S, Arias B, Fatjó-Vilas M, Fañanás L
  - DOI: 10.1101/cshperspect.a036780
- Subject: A review of FKBP10 gene, its related diseases, and the underlying molecular mechanisms
  - Author: Liu Z, Ma P, Liu L, Zhang X, Li M, Jiang Y, Song D, Zhao Y
  - DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-46296-w

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**