---
title: "CRTC3"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene CRTC3"
tags: ['CRTC3', 'GeneFunction', 'GenomicLocation', 'MutationTypes', 'RelatedDiseases', 'DrugResponse', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information on Gene CRTC3

## Gene Description
The CRTC3 gene is located on chromosome 2 and encodes for the CREB-regulated transcription coactivator 3 protein. This protein plays a crucial role in the regulation of glucose and lipid metabolism by controlling the expression of certain genes.

## Function
CRTC3 functions as a coactivator of the transcription factor CREB in response to various stimuli such as nutrient availability, stress, and hormones. It is involved in the regulation of glucose homeostasis by controlling the expression of genes involved in gluconeogenesis, such as PEPCK and G6Pase.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 25586
- NCBI Entrez: 200186
- Ensembl: ENSG00000116815
- OMIM: 614919
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6UUV9
- Aliases: TORC3, CREB-regulated transcriptional coactivator 3

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Thr125Ala (rs758524636)
- p.Arg272Gln (rs761768477)
- p.Thr72Ile (rs142216338)
- p.Ala238Val (rs755677332)
- p.Gln35Pro (rs201209012)
- Mutation Type: Missense Variants

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs138128104
- rs151508516
- rs182566470
- rs186179843
- rs267608046
- rs56992756

## Related Disease
CRTC3 has been found to be associated with the following diseases:
- Diabetes Mellitus, Non-Insulin-Dependent
- Glucose Metabolism Disorders 
- Insulin Resistance
- Obesity

## Treatment and Prognosis
Further research is needed to determine the treatment and prognosis for individuals with CRTC3-related diseases.

## Drug Response
Currently, there are no drugs specifically designed for CRTC3-related diseases. However, drugs that target glucose and lipid metabolism pathways may be effective in managing these disorders.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Identification of CRTC3 Mutations in Korean Patients With Non-insulin-dependent Diabetes Mellitus 
  - Author Name: Hongkyu Kim et al.
  - DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1210/jc.2015-4081)

- Subject: CRTC3 links catecholamine signalling to energy balance 
  - Author Name: TGJ Lutz et al.
  - DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature07843)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**