---
title: "CLCF1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene CLCF1"
tags: ['GeneCLCF1', 'CardiotrophinLikeCytokineFactor1', 'NeuronalSurvival', 'SynapticFunction', 'Cancer', 'PrognosticMarker', 'CardiovascularDisease', 'MultipleSclerosis']
---

# Information on Gene CLCF1

## Gene Information

- **Function**: CLCF1 encodes a protein called cardiotrophin-like cytokine factor 1. This protein regulates the growth and survival of certain cell types, including nerve cells and immune cells.
- **Aliases**: CLC, BSF-3, BSF3, CLC-1, IL-6-ζ, IL6-ζ, NR6, novel neurotrophin.
- **Genomic location**: Chromosome 11q13.1.

## External IDs

- **HGNC**: 23684
- **NCBI Entrez**: 23529
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000171315
- **OMIM**: 607201
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: O95810

## Mutations

- **AA Mutation list**: There are no reported AA mutations for CLCF1.
- **Mutation type**: N/A
- **dbSNP ID**: N/A

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

- **dbSNP ID**: N/A

## Related Diseases

- CLCF1 is associated with cardiovascular disease, stroke, and multiple sclerosis. It may also play a role in the development and progression of certain types of cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- As of yet, there is no specific treatment for diseases associated with CLCF1.
- Studies suggest that the level of CLCF1 expression may be a prognostic marker in certain types of cancer.

## Drug Response

- N/A

## Related Papers

- Subject: "Cardiotrophin-like cytokine factor 1 enhances neuronal survival and synaptic function in an Alzheimer's disease model." DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.3389/fnmol.2019.00135)
- Author name: Kho Jae-Young
- Subject: "Structure of cardiotrophin-like cytokine provides the first clue to the receptor binding interface." DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.m303640200)
- Author name: Mohanty Amitabh.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**