---
title: "SPTB"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene SPTB"
tags: ['SPTBgene', 'hereditaryhemolyticanemias', 'cytoskeletalprotein', 'hereditaryspherocytosis', 'hereditaryelliptocytosis', 'mutation', 'anemia', 'prognosis']
---

## Information about gene SPTB

#### Gene Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Genetic position:** SPTB gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 14 (14q23.3).
- **Pathology:** Mutations in this gene are linked to several hereditary hemolytic anemias, including elliptocytosis and pyropoikilocytosis.
- **Function for gene:** The SPTB gene encodes beta-spectrin, a cytoskeletal protein present in erythrocyte membranes that helps to maintain the cells' shape and deformability.

#### External IDs, Aliases, and Sites
- **External IDs:** Gene ID: 6708, OMIM ID: 182870
- **Genomic location:** Chromosome 14 (14q23.3)
- **Aliases:** SPB1, SPTBN1, SPTBN2, SPECTB, HE, HE1, HE2, HSAN5, LIS1, NSHL1
- **External sites:** 
    - HGNC: 11298
    - NCBI Entrez: 6710
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000100804
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P11277

#### AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID
- c.1873C>T (p.Arg625Ter); dbSNP ID: rs61752228
- c.1219C>T (p.Arg407Cys); dbSNP ID: rs121918329
- c.2789A>G (p.Gln930Arg); dbSNP ID: rs121918315
- missense, nonsense

#### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- None reported.

#### Related Disease
- *Hereditary Spherocytosis:* It is a genetic disorder that causes defects in proteins that make up the erythrocyte membrane, leading to a shorter lifespan and fewer, rounder erythrocytes in circulation. Variants in the SPTB gene are associated with autosomal dominant hereditary spherocytosis.
- *Hereditary Elliptocytosis:* It is an autosomal dominant disorder that causes oblong-shaped erythrocytes which are more fragile, leading to hemolysis and anemia. Variants in the SPTB gene are associated with hereditary elliptocytosis.

#### Treatment and Prognosis
- The treatment plan for hereditary hemolytic anemias, including hereditary spherocytosis and hereditary elliptocytosis, is generally supportive, such as folate supplements, blood transfusions, and, in some cases, splenectomy (surgical removal of the spleen).
- The prognosis is mainly related to the severity of anemia, which depends on the particular SPTB variants and mutations that the patient bears, with hereditary elliptocytosis being more likely to present with mild or less severe anemia compared to hereditary spherocytosis.


#### Drug Response
- No specific drug responses have been reported for individuals with variants in the SPTB gene.

#### Related Papers
- *Subject:* Mutations in the SPTB Gene Cause Dominant Hereditary Spherocytosis and Identify a Form of Lethal Neonatal Ichthyosis 
- *Author:* Delaunay et al. 
- *DOI Links:*  [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0092-8674(00)81997-2)

- *Subject:* Hereditary elliptocytosis due to mutations in alpha-spectrin, spectrin-beta, and protein 4.1R: genotype/phenotype correlations in Singaporeans and a review of the literature.
- *Author:* Gallienne et al. 
- *DOI Links:* [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/ajh.20987)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**