---
title: "DNASE1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene DNASE1"
tags: ['GeneDNASE1', 'Chromosome16', 'SystemicLupusErythematosus', 'DNase1Enzyme', 'MissenseMutations', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Immunosuppressants', 'DNaseIHypersensitivityMapping']
---

# Information about Gene DNASE1

## Genetic Position
The gene DNASE1 is located on chromosome 16q24.2.

## Pathology
Mutations in the DNASE1 gene can lead to a rare autosomal recessive disorder called systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).

## Function
The DNASE1 gene codes for an enzyme called deoxyribonuclease 1 (DNase 1), which is responsible for breaking down DNA in the body. DNase 1 plays an important role in preventing the accumulation of self-DNA, which can trigger an immune response.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 2958
- NCBI Entrez: 1773
- Ensembl: ENSG00000140718
- OMIM: 126350
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P24855
- Aliases: DNS1, DNASE

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are several missense mutations in the DNASE1 gene that have been associated with SLE. 
- p.P119L (rs35836713)
- p.Y54C (rs35870050)
- p.A99T (rs3093738)
- p.I284T (rs140400778)
- p.V223G (rs140400780)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID associated with the DNASE1 gene.

## Related disease
Mutations in the DNASE1 gene have been associated with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).

## Treatment and prognosis
There is currently no cure for SLE, but treatment can help manage symptoms. Treatment options include NSAIDs, corticosteroids, and immunosuppressants.

## Drug response
There is limited information on the drug response for DNASE1 mutations.

## Related papers
- Subject: Systemic lupus erythematosus and deficiency of deoxyribonuclease I
- Author: Napirei, Markus 
- DOI: 10.1007/978-3-7091-0218-4_35

- Subject: DNase I hypersensitivity mapping of chromosomal abnormalities
- Author: Bieker, Johannes J. 
- DOI: 10.1038/nprot.2006.157

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**