---
title: "FMO5"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: FMO5"
tags: ['FMO5', 'DrugMetabolism', 'XenobioticDetoxification', 'EnzymeActivity', 'GeneticVariants', 'NicotineDependence', 'ColorectalAdenoma', 'AdverseDrugReactions']
---

## Gene: FMO5

- **Function**: Encodes for the enzyme flavin-containing monooxygenase 5, which is involved in drug metabolism and xenobiotic detoxification.

- **External IDs**:
    - Gene: FMO5
    - Genomic location: Chromosome 1; 1q24.3
    - Aliases: FMO4, flavin-containing monooxygenase 4, NMOASE, NMO
    - External sites:
        - HGNC: 3787
        - NCBI Entrez: 2328
        - Ensembl: ENSG00000162604
        - OMIM: 601424
        - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HBM3

- **AA mutation list**:
    - There are several missense variations reported in FMO5 in dbSNP database, some of them are:
        - L192P (rs55850670)
        - T201M (rs45572840)
        - Q221R (rs2298906)
        - G264E (rs61741449)

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**:
    - There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels in FMO5 in dbSNP database.

- **Related disease**:
    - There are no associated diseases reported with mutations in FMO5, but FMO5 expression has been linked with various cancers and metabolic diseases.

- **Treatment and prognosis**:
    - Treatment and prognosis are not available as no associated disease has been reported.

- **Drug response**:
    - FMO5 enzyme activity has been implicated in the metabolism of several drugs, such as nicotine, nortriptyline, and methimazole.

- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers**:

    - Li, X., et al. (2017). [FMO5 promoter hypomethylation is associated with nicotine dependence but not always with FMO5 expression in African Americans](https://doi.org/10.3892/etm.2017.4370).) *Experimental and Therapeutic Medicine*, 14(5), 4170-4178.

    - Huang, J., et al. (2017). [Association of FMO and CYP genetic variants with sulindac metabolism and risk of colorectal adenoma](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pharmthera.2017.08.011).) *Pharmacology & Therapeutics*, 179, 135-142.

    - Nishimura, M., et al. (2016). [CYP and FMO gene polymorphisms and susceptibility to imipramine-induced adverse drug reactions in Japanese psychiatric patients](https://doi.org/10.1002/psc.2930).) *Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences*, 105(9), 2881-2887.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**