---
title: "LMX1B"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: LMX1B"
tags: ['LMX1B', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'NailPatellaSyndrome', 'RenalHypoplasia', 'GeneticMutation', 'DevelopmentalBiology', 'KidneyTransplantation', 'HumanMolecularGenetics']
---

## Gene: LMX1B
- **Function:** LMX1B encodes a transcription factor that plays a key role in the development of the renal and skeletal systems. It is involved in the differentiation of mesenchymal cells into osteoblasts and in the development of podocytes as well as maintenance of the glomerular basement membrane.
- **External IDs:** HGNC: 6631, NCBI Entrez: 4010, Ensembl: ENSG00000132693, OMIM: 602575, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P50222
- **Aliases:** LIM homeobox transcription factor 1-beta, LMX1.2, FJHN, NPS3, Nail-patella syndrome type 3
- **Genomic location:** Chromosome 9q33
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    - c.604G>A (p.G202R) rs121907927
    - c.602-1G>A rs104886457
    - c.289G>A (p.R97H) rs367543064
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** None reported
- **Related disease:** Nail-patella syndrome (NPS), Hereditary renal hypoplasia
- **Treatment and prognosis:** Treatment of NPS is focused on symptomatic relief. In patients with severe renal disease, dialysis or kidney transplantation may be required.
- **Drug response:** No known drug therapy is currently available for NPS.
- **Related papers:**
    - Author: Sweeney, E., Fryer, A., Mountford, R., Green, A., McIntosh, I.
      - Title: Nail patella syndrome: A review of the phenotype aided by developmental biology. 
      - Journal: Journal of medical genetics, 35(9), 717-725.
      - DOI: 10.1136/jmg.35.9.717
    - Author: Vollrath, D., Jaramillo-Babb, V. L., Clough, M. V., McIntosh, I., Scott, K. M., Lichter, P. R., ... & Rich, R. R.
      - Title: Loss-of-function mutations in the LIM-homeodomain gene, LMX1B, in nail-patella syndrome.
      - Journal: Human molecular genetics, 7(7), 1091-1098.
      - DOI: 10.1093/hmg/7.7.1091

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**