---
title: "GABRD"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene GABRD"
tags: ['GABRD', 'GABA-Areceptor', 'Neurotransmitter', 'GeneticEpilepsy', 'AddictiveBehavior', 'PsychiatricConditions', 'Benzodiazepines', 'Ethanol']
---

## Information about Gene GABRD

### Genetic Position 
The gene GABRD is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 at position 31.1.

### Pathology
The alterations of GABRD genes have been identified in multiple human diseases including addiction, epilepsy, and anxiety disorders.

### Function for Gene
GABRD encodes a subunit of GABA-A receptor, which functions as an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and controls neuronal excitability.

### External IDs, Genomic Location, and Aliases
- HGNC: 4148
- NCBI Entrez: 2563
- Ensembl: ENSG00000158473
- OMIM: 137163
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N1C3
- Genomic Location: Chr1:19,676,834-19,738,848
- Aliases: GABA(A) receptor delta, subunit GABRD.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are multiple missense/frameshift mutations:
- p.Arg220Pro with dbSNP ID rs145874397
- p.Ala52Gly with dbSNP ID rs149687553
- p.Asn476Asp with dbSNP ID rs17883319
- p.Met296Val with dbSNP ID rs17684514

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are few somatic mutations reported in GADRB gene:
- c.1336C>A with dbSNP ID rs764582542
- c.620_620del with dbSNP ID rs770259092 

### Related Disease
The alterations of GABRD gene contribute to an increased risk of genetic epilepsy, addictive behavior including alcohol addiction and other psychiatric conditions such as anxiety.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There are no specific treatments targeting GABRD mutations, but treatment depends on the specific disorder. Prognosis varies, with patients with genetic epilepsy sometimes achieving seizure control with medication.

### Drug Response
The activity of GABA-A receptor modulators such as benzodiazepines increases with the use of the GABRD subunit, and GABA-A-mediated inhibition is also increased by ethanol.

### References
- Eichler SA, Kirshenbaum K, Bear MF, et al. (2008). "Alteration of the α2δ-1 subunit of voltage-gated calcium channels in the rat dorsal horn following chronic constriction injury". J Physiol. 586 (Pt 20): 4949–62.
- Kang, Jing-Qiong, et al. "GABRD encoding the delta subunit of the GABA(A) receptor is a novel loci for inherited generalized epilepsy." Human genetics 127.6 (2010): 687–693.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**