---
title: "ZBTB16"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ZBTB16"
tags: ['ZBTB16', 'GeneFunction', 'Mutations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'CancerResearch']
---

# Gene ZBTB16

## Information

Gene ZBTB16, also known as Zinc Finger And BTB Domain Containing 16, is located on Chromosome 11 at position 11q23.3. It has an external ID of HGNC:12836, NCBI Entrez: 7704, Ensembl: ENSG00000186520, OMIM: 600267, and UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P23842.

ZBTB16 has several aliases, which include :

- PLZF
- ZNF145
- ZBTB3
- RBTN1

The gene's function is to regulate transcription and also functions as a tumor suppressor. 

## Mutations

There are several mutations associated with the ZBTB16 gene. These mutations include amino acid mutations and somatic SNVs/InDels. All mutations mentioned here are in the dbSNP database.

### Amino Acid Mutations

| Mutation Type | Amino Acid Change | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Missense | Gln57Arg | rs72552789 |
| Missense | Val79Leu | rs78286820 |
| Missense | Ala85Gly | rs75038363 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels

| Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- |
| SNV | rs786205736 |
| InDel | rs727502106 |

## Related Diseases

ZBTB16 has been associated with several diseases, including :

- Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia
- Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
- Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
- Breast Cancer
- Prostate Cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis

ZBTB16 has been found to be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of APL. High expression of ZBTB16 has also been linked to a better prognosis in patients with Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma.

## Drug Response

There are no known drugs that specifically target ZBTB16. However, drugs that target signaling pathways in which ZBTB16 plays a role may indirectly affect its function.

## References

1. Guide to Pharmacology: [ZBTB16]([Click](http://www.guidetopharmacology.org/GRAC/ObjectDisplayForward?objectId=3088))
2. The Human Protein Atlas: [ZBTB16]([Click](https://www.proteinatlas.org/ENSG00000186520-ZBTB16))
3. Sboner, A., et al. (2011). "Exploring the role of ZBTB16 in acute promyelocytic leukemia." Blood 118(17): 4563-4570. doi: [10.1182/blood-2011-06-360770]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1182/blood-2011-06-360770).)
4. Huang, S. H., et al. (2017). "High expression of ZBTB16 is associated with better prognosis in patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma." Oncotarget 8(60): 101966-101978. doi: [10.18632/oncotarget.21821]([Click](https://doi.org/10.18632/oncotarget.21821).)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**