---
title: "EIF2S3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene EIF2S3"
tags: ['EIF2S3', 'IntellectualDisability', 'SnijdersBlokCampeauSyndrome', 'ProteinSynthesis', 'MissenseMutation', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'GeneticInformation', 'TranslationInitiationFactor']
---

## Gene EIF2S3

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: X
- Location: Xq28

### Pathology
EIF2S3 gene is associated with intellectual disability, X-linked, syndromic, Snijders Blok-Campeau syndrome, , and Turner syndrome.

### Function
EIF2S3 encodes for eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 subunit gamma (eIF2γ). This protein enables the start of the process of protein synthesis in eukaryotic cells.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 3286
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 1968
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000102014
- OMIM ID: 300189
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P41091
- Aliases: EIF2-gamma, eIF-2 gamma, EIF2S3B, IF2S3

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Pro740Leu (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs761263265
- p.Leu687Ile (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs1554287662

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No known somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

### Related Disease
EIF2S3 gene is associated with Snijders Blok-Campeau syndrome, which is a developmental disorder characterized by intellectual disability, delayed speech, and facial dysmorphism. This syndrome is caused by a mutation in the EIF2S3 gene.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for Snijders Blok-Campeau syndrome. The treatment is symptomatic and supportive, aimed at improving the quality of life of affected individuals.

### Drug Response
No information is available on drug response related to EIF2S3 gene.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Snijders Blok-Campeau syndrome 
- Author: Snijders Blok et al. 
- DOI: 10.1038/ng.2874 

- Subject: Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 subunit gamma 
- Author: Michael P. Dougherty et al. 
- DOI: 10.1016/j.ymeth.2010.02.005

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**