---
title: "MT TS2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene MT-TS2"
tags: ['MTTS2', 'MitochondrialDiseases', 'MELAS', 'tRNA', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene MT-TS2
Gene MT-TS2 encodes for the mitochondrial transfer RNA (tRNA) serine 2, which is a key component for the translation of mitochondrial genome-encoded proteins. 

### Function
The main function of gene MT-TS2 is to provide instructions for the synthesis of mitochondrial transfer RNA (tRNA) serine 2, which then helps assemble mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation complexes and carry out respiratory chain function. 

### External IDs and Genomic Location
- HGNC ID: 7483
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 4559
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000229844
- OMIM ID: 590085
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: A0A140VB05

Gene MT-TS2 is located on the mitochondrial genome, specifically on the heavy (H) strand of chromosome 1 with coordinates NC_012920.1: 7,544-7,610. It is also known as MTTS2 or mitochondrial serine-tRNA.

### Mutation Information
Some of the mutations recorded for gene MT-TS2 are:
- m.7456C>T (p.L31F) with dbSNP ID rs766994119
- m.7483T>C (p.Ser2Pro) with dbSNP ID rs1556829
- m.7470G>A (p.V7I) with dbSNP ID rs118204649

### Related Diseases
Mutations in gene MT-TS2 have been associated with mitochondrial diseases, specifically a mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS) 

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for mitochondrial diseases at the moment. Treatment for MELAS and other mitochondrial diseases usually involves supporting metabolic and organ functions, managing symptoms, and preventing complications. The prognosis may vary depending on the severity and progression of the disease.

### Drug Response
There is no specific drug treatment for gene MT-TS2 mutations. However, some drugs like coenzyme Q10, idebenone, and vitamin B have been used to manage symptoms and improve mitochondrial function.

### References
- DiMauro, S., & Schon, E. A. (2008). Mitochondrial respiratory-chain diseases. New England Journal of Medicine, 348(26), 2656–2668. doi: 10.1056/nejmra022567
- OMIM. (2021). MT-TS2 gene. Retrieved from [Click](https://www.omim.org/genemap/currmap/M)
- UniProt Consortium. (2021). MT-TS2 Gene - A0A140VB05. Retrieved from [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/A0A140VB05)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**