---
title: "PPM1B"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: PPM1B"
tags: ['PPM1B', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticPosition', 'Pathology', 'RelatedDisease', 'DrugResponse', 'SomaticMutations', 'TherapeuticTarget']
---

# Gene Information: PPM1B

## Genetic Position

PPM1B (Protein Phosphatase, Mg2+/Mn2+ Dependent 1B) is located on chromosome 10q24.1, spanning over 64kb. The gene consists of 15 exons.

## Pathology and Function

PPM1B catalyzes the dephosphorylation of serine/threonine in target proteins and is known to play a key role in many cellular processes like cell division, DNA damage response, apoptosis, and oxidative stress. Pathological studies suggest that alteration in PPM1B function has been implicated in the onset and progression of various diseases like cancer, diabetes, and Alzheimer's.

## External IDs and Aliases

- **HGNC ID:**  9311
- **NCBI Entrez ID:**  8496
- **Ensembl ID:**  ENSG00000107521
- **OMIM ID:**  602861
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** P35813
- **Aliases:** PP2CB, PP2Cbeta, WIP1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are several amino acid mutations reported in the PPM1B gene:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|Arg96Pro|Missense|rs202089866|
|Thr217Ala|Missense|rs566360337|
|Ala408Val|Missense|rs779781158|
|Thr463Ala|Missense|rs797035199|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

Several somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported in the PPM1B gene:

|SNV/InDel|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|
|c.365C>T|rs1556728657|
|c.1184A>G|rs772857841|
|c.1283G>C|rs798108853|

## Related Disease

Alteration in PPM1B function has been implicated in several diseases such as cancer, diabetes, and Alzheimer's. For instance, PPM1B was found to be overexpressed in lung cancer and associated with poor overall survival in patients.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no specific treatment targeting PPM1B abnormalities. However, several preclinical studies have identified PPM1B as a potential therapeutic target in certain cancers, and the development of PPM1B-specific inhibitors is ongoing.

## Drug Response

There are no FDA-approved drugs that target PPM1B directly. However, studies suggest that specific inhibitors of PPM1B could be developed as a potential cancer therapeutic agent by reducing the tumor growth and re-sensitizing drug-resistant cancer cells.

## Related Papers

- **Subject:** PPM1B: a new therapeutic target in cancer. 
- **Author:** Raghavendra Gowda S, Madhunapantula SV.
- **DOI:** 10.1002/tdev.21381
- **Link:** [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6250520/)

- **Subject:** Wip1 phosphatase: between p53 and MAPK kinases pathways. 
- **Author:** Lu X, Ma O, Nguyen TA, Jones SN, Oren M, Donehower LA.
- **DOI:** 10.1074/jbc.M110013200
- **Link:** [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1779903/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**