---
title: "CASP9"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene CASP9 "
tags: ['CASP9', 'Apoptosis', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'TherapeuticTargets', 'DrugResponse', 'SomaticVariants', 'CellDeath']
---

# Information about Gene CASP9 

## Genomic Position and Aliases 

- Chromosome: 1 
- Location: 114143842-114152975 (-) 
- Alias: APAF3, APAF-3, Casp-9, ICE-LAP6, MCH6 

External IDs

- HGNC: 1519 
- NCBI Entrez: 842 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000122566 
- OMIM: 602234
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P55211 

## Function 

CASP9 is a member of the caspase family of cysteine proteases that play a central role in the execution of programmed cell death, or apoptosis. It is activated by cytochrome c and degrades various cellular proteins, leading to the dismantling of the cell. 

## Mutations 

- AA Mutation List: p.Ala315Val, p.Ser253Ala, p.Leu21Leu 
- Mutation Type: Missense, synonymous 
- dbSNP ID: rs1052571, rs16952094, rs2280663 

## Somatic SNVs/InDels 

There are several somatic SNVs/InDels with high confidence: 

- rs2020917 (C/G) 
- rs2020918 (C/G) 

## Related Disease 

CASP9 is linked to various diseases such as cancer, Alzheimer's disease, and ischemia/reperfusion injury. 

## Treatment and Prognosis 

Targeting caspase activation is a potential therapeutic strategy in cancer and ischemia/reperfusion injury. However, the role of CASP9 in these diseases is tissue-specific, and more research is needed to establish its potential therapeutic value.

## Drug Response 

Pre-clinical studies have shown that inhibitors of caspase activation can improve the outcome of various diseases, including cancer and ischemia/reperfusion injury. However, further research is required to determine the clinical utility of these drugs in humans.

## Related Papers 

- Author Name: Zhang L, Ren X, Alt E, Bai X, Huang S, Xu Z, Lynch PM, Moyer MP, Wen XF, Wu X. 
  - Title: Chemoprevention of colorectal cancer by targeting APC-deficient cells for apoptosis. 
  - Journal: Nature. 
  - DOI: 10.1038/nature03071 

- Author Name: Riedl SJ, Salvesen GS. 
  - Title: The apoptosome: signalling platform of cell death. 
  - Journal: Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 
  - DOI: 10.1038/nrm2153 

- Author Name: Hakem R. 
  - Title: Caspase-9 activation is a key checkpoint for progression to apoptosis during differentiation of primary erythroid cells. 
  - Journal: Cell Death Differ. 
  - DOI: 10.1038/sj.cdd.4401052

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**