---
title: "FLCN"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene FLCN"
tags: ['GeneFLCN', 'BirtHoggDubeSyndrome', 'KidneyCancer', 'CellGrowthRegulation', 'SomaticMutations', 'MissenseMutations', 'NonsenseMutations', 'FrameshiftMutations']
---

# Gene FLCN

## Gene Information

- **Function for Gene:** The FLCN gene provides instructions to make the protein folliculin, which is involved in the regulation of cell growth and division.
- **External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases:**

    - **HGNC**: 3972
    - **NCBI Entrez**: 201163
    - **Ensembl**: ENSG00000171616
    - **OMIM**: 607273
    - **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: BHD_HUMAN

- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**

    - The FLCN gene has various missense, nonsense, frameshift, and splicing mutations that are associated with Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome (BHD). A few examples are:
    
        | AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
        | --- | --- | --- |
        | P26S | Missense | rs745981783 |
        | R59* | Nonsense | rs1567533203 |
        | delE94 | Frameshift | rs371805207 |
        | IVS6+5G>T | Splicing | rs62536598 |
        
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

    - Somatic mutations in the FLCN gene are associated with some cancers, including renal cell carcinoma. A few examples of somatic mutations are:
    
        | SNV/InDel | dbSNP ID |
        | --- | --- |
        | c.1285dupC | rs1554534140 |
        | c.1285dupT | rs1554534139 |
        | c.610_612delCTC | rs144915193 |
        
        
- **Related Disease:**

    - Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome (BHD) is a rare hereditary disorder caused by mutations in the FLCN gene. The syndrome is characterized by skin lesions, lung cysts, and an increased risk of developing kidney cancer.
    
- **Treatment and Prognosis:**

    - There is no cure for BHD, but the symptoms can be treated. People with BHD are advised to undergo regular screenings to detect and treat any kidney tumors. The prognosis for individuals with BHD varies, and it depends on various factors, including the severity of the symptoms and the age at which they are diagnosed.

- **Drug Response:**
    
    - There is currently no known drug treatment that targets the FLCN gene directly. However, there are various treatment options available to manage the symptoms of BHD and kidney cancer.

- **Subject, Author Name, DOI Links to Related Papers:**

    - Lui, M. and Zhen, S. (2020). Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome: a literature review and case series. Journal of Community Hospital Internal Medicine Perspectives, 10(3), pp.251-255. DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1080/20009666.2020.1793204)
    
    - Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network (2013). Comprehensive molecular characterization of clear cell renal cell carcinoma. Nature, 499(7456), pp.43-49. DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature12222)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**