---
title: "MIR892B"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene MIR892B"
tags: ['GeneMIR892B', 'MicroRNA', 'BreastCancer', 'Glioma', 'Prognosis', 'TargetedTherapy', 'mRNARegulation', 'CancerResearch']
---

# Gene MIR892B

## Genetic Position
The gene MIR892B is located on chromosome 14q32.31.

## Pathology
MIR892B is a microRNA gene that has been found to be significant in various cancers. Studies have shown that the downregulation of MIR892B can lead to an increase in cancer cell proliferation in breast cancer and glioma.

## Function for Gene
MIR892B is a microRNA that acts as a post-transcriptional regulator of gene expression. It exerts its function by binding to the mRNA of target genes, resulting in mRNA degradation or translational inhibition.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 31599
- NCBI Entrez: 100616387
- Ensembl: ENSG00000275231
- OMIM: -
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: -

Aliases:
- MIRN892B

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There is no reported AA mutation for MIR892B in the dbSNP database.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for MIR892B in the dbSNP database.

## Related Disease
Downregulation of MIR892B has been implicated in various cancers, including breast cancer and glioma.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The downregulation of MIR892B has been linked to a poor prognosis in breast cancer and glioma. However, more studies are needed to determine the effectiveness of targeting MIR892B for cancer treatment.

## Drug Response
There is currently no information available regarding drug response to MIR892B.

## Related Papers
- Subject: The prognostic value of microRNA expression in breast cancer
  - DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-52915-w
  - Author: Ozawa, PM
- Subject: Downregulation of microRNA-892b promotes cell proliferation and invasion in glioma by targeting tumor suppressor candidate 7
  - DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2019.10084
  - Author: Wang, D. et al

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**