---
title: "DICER1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene DICER1"
tags: ['DICER1', 'RNaseIII', 'miRNA', 'cancer', 'PPB', 'treatment', 'prognosis', 'genetics']
---

# Information about Gene DICER1

## Genetic Position
The DICER1 gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 14 (14q32.13).

## Pathology
The DICER1 gene plays a crucial role in the biogenesis of small non-coding RNAs, including microRNAs (miRNAs) and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs). Mutations in the DICER1 gene have been associated with several types of cancer, such as pleuropulmonary blastoma (PPB), ovarian sex cord-stromal tumors, and Wilms tumor.

## Function for Gene
The DICER1 gene encodes an RNase III endonuclease that is responsible for cleaving RNA molecules, such as pre-miRNAs and long double-stranded RNAs, into mature miRNAs and siRNAs, respectively.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 27396
- NCBI Entrez: 23405
- Ensembl: ENSG00000100697
- OMIM: 606241
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UPY3

Aliases:
- DCR-1
- Dicer
- HERNA

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.5438G>A: p.D1813N (rs3742330)
- c.4429T>G: p.M1477R (rs3742331)
- c.1323C>T: p.R441C (rs769412788)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.5126A>G: p.K1709E (rs79730016)
- c.4415A>G: p.L1472V (rs202126167)
- c.5115T>C: p.C1705R (rs1057517227)

## Related Disease
- Pleuropulmonary blastoma (PPB)
- Ovarian sex cord-stromal tumors
- Wilms' tumor
- Embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis for DICER1-related cancer may vary depending on the type and stage of the cancer. Surgery is the primary treatment option for PPB, while chemotherapy and radiation therapy may also be used. The prognosis for DICER1-related cancer is generally good if detected early and treated appropriately.

## Drug Response
There is currently no specific drug therapy available for DICER1-related cancer.

## Related Papers
- Subject: DICER1 syndrome: clarifying the diagnosis, clinical features and management implications of a pleiotropic tumour predisposition syndrome
  - Author: Hill DA, Ivanovich J, Priest JR, Gurnett CA, Dehner LP, Desruisseau D, Jarzembowski JA, Wikenheiser-Brokamp KA, Suarez BK, Whelan AJ, Williams G, Bracamontes D, Messinger Y, Goodfellow PJ
  - DOI: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2011-100666

- Subject: DICER1 mutations in familial pleuropulmonary blastoma
  - Author: Rio Frio T, Bahubeshi A, Kanellopoulou C, Hamel N, Niedziela M, Sabbaghian N, Pouchet C, Gilbert L, O'Brien PK, Serfas K, Broderick P, Houlston RS, Lesueur F, Bonora E, Muljo S, Schimke RN, Bouron-Dal Soglio D, Arseneau J, Schultz KA, Priest JR, Nguyen VH, Harach HR, Livingston DM, Foulkes WD
  - DOI: 10.1038/ng.911

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**