---
title: "B4GALNT3"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene B4GALNT3"
tags: ['B4GALNT3', 'Glycosylation', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticPosition']
---

# Gene B4GALNT3

## Genetic Position
- The gene B4GALNT3 is located on chromosome 12q24.12.

## Pathology
- Mutations in the B4GALNT3 gene have been associated with various types of cancer, including lung adenocarcinoma and hepatocellular carcinoma.

## Function
- The B4GALNT3 gene encodes an enzyme that is involved in glycosylation. Specifically, it adds a beta-1,4-linked N-acetylglucosamine residue to the terminal beta-galactose of various glycolipids and glycoproteins.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 924
- NCBI Entrez: 8706
- Ensembl: ENSG00000196872
- OMIM: 609820
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NSC5

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Val110Met (rs121909391)
- p.Gly108Ala (rs776683085)
- p.Pro72Leu (rs201663144)
- p.Pro72Thr (rs587777150)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.337G>A (rs149680326)
- c.815G>A (rs80338929)
- c.813C>T (rs80338928)
- c.1280C>T (rs763674716)

## Related Disease
- B4GALNT3 mutations have been associated with the development and progression of several types of cancer, including lung adenocarcinoma and hepatocellular carcinoma.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment options for cancer linked to mutations in the B4GALNT3 gene depend on the type and stage of cancer. Prognosis is also dependent on several factors, including the extent of disease and the response to treatment.

## Drug Response
- Information about drug response for B4GALNT3 mutations is currently limited.

## Related Papers
- [The B4GALNT3 Glycosyltransferase Promotes the Survival of Patient-Derived Hepatocellular Carcinoma Cells and Cancer Stem Cells](https://doi.org/10.3390/cells8080945))
- [Genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screening reveals genetic modifiers of mutant EGFR dependence in human NSCLC](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2019.07.077))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**