---
title: "FGA"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene FGA"
tags: ['FGA', 'Dysfibrinogenemia', 'BloodClotting', 'MissenseMutation', 'InheritedDisorder', 'CongenitalDysfibrinogenemia', 'Anticoagulants', 'PlasmaTransfusions']
---

## Gene FGA

### Information
- **Genetic position**: Chromosome 4q28.1
- **Pathology**: Fibrinogen is a blood protein that is essential to blood clotting. Fibrinogen A alpha chain gene (FGA) mutations are associated with dysfibrinogenemia, an inherited disorder that affects the ability of blood to clot. 
- **Function**: FGA encodes for the alpha chain of fibrinogen protein, which is important for the formation of blood clots. 

### Identifiers
- **External IDs**: HGNC: 3541, NCBI Entrez: 2243, Ensembl: ENSG00000171564, OMIM: 134820, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P02671
- **Aliases**: FGA, Fibrinogen alpha chain, Fibrogen

### Mutations
- **AA mutation list**:
    - p.Arg35Cys
    - p.Arg37Cys
    - p.Lys56_Gln58del
    - p.Glu66Lys
    - p.Glu454Lys
- **Mutation type**: Missense, deletion, insertion
- **dbSNP ID**: rs121912673, rs121912674, rs28932695, rs121912675, rs121912677

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
- **dbSNP ID**: N/A

### Related Disease
- **Disease name**: Congenital dysfibrinogenemia
- **Symptoms**: Increased tendency to bleeding or thrombosis, depending on the type of dysfibrinogenemia
- **Inheritance**: Autosomal dominant
- **Papers**: 
    - [Dysfibrinogenemia: review of laboratory and clinical features.]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1515/cclm-2012-0489))
    - [Targeted high-throughput sequencing identifies seven novel fibrinogen A alpha chain variants in a large Chinese cohort.]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-50169-1))

### Treatment and Prognosis
- **Treatment**: There is no specific treatment for congenital dysfibrinogenemia. Treatment is based on the individual's symptoms and may include anticoagulants if there is a tendency towards blood clots, or transfusions of fresh plasma or cryoprecipitate if there is bleeding.
- **Prognosis**: The prognosis for patients with dysfibrinogenemia varies depending on the type and severity of the disorder.

### Drug Response
- N/A

### Author
- **Author**: Assistant
- **DOI links**: N/A

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**