---
title: "FANCA"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: FANCA "
tags: ['FANCA', 'FanconiAnemia', 'DNADamageRepair', 'Mutation', 'BoneMarrowFailure', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticDisorder']
---

# Gene: FANCA 

## Genetic Position

The FANCA gene is located on chromosome 16 at q24.3.

## Pathology 

Mutations in FANCA gene cause Fanconi anemia (FA), an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by bone marrow failure, physical abnormalities, and an increased risk of cancer.

## Function 

FANCA is a part of the Fanconi anemia (FA) pathway, which is involved in DNA damage repair, specifically interstrand cross-link repair. FANCA is required for the activation of other proteins in the FA pathway.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 355
- NCBI Entrez: 2175
- Ensembl: ENSG00000163743
- OMIM: 607139
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O15360

Aliases: FA, FAA

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

- p.Ala402Glu (rs72552795)
- p.Leu46fs
- p.Gln848fs
- p.Leu1072Ile
- p.Arg1119fs
- p.Ala1066Val
- p.Gln772Ter (rs104894372)

Mutation types: Missense, frameshift, nonsense, inframe deletion, splice.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are several somatic variants in FANCA gene reported in COSMIC database:
- c.562_562+2delTGT (rs1057519926)
- c.298_301del (rs1064793895)
- c.190+1G>A (rs1064793894)

## Related Disease

Mutations in FANCA gene cause Fanconi anemia (FA), a rare genetic disorder characterized by bone marrow failure, physical abnormalities, and an increased risk of cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment for FA involves bone marrow transplantation and supportive care for the complications caused by the disease. Prognosis can vary depending on the severity of the disease and patient's response to treatment.

## Drug Response

There is currently no specific drug treatment available for FA, but some drugs have been shown to have potential in laboratory studies, such as histone deacetylase inhibitors.

## Related papers

- Subject: FANCA gene mutations in early-onset and familial breast cancer cases in Tunisia. 
  - DOI: 10.1007/s10689-020-00218-6
  - Author: Missaoui, M., et al.
- Subject: Understanding the function of Fanconi Anemia core complex carrying FANCA synonymous mutation 
  - DOI:  10.1186/s12862-019-1384-5
  - Author: Maciejczyk, K., et al. 
- Subject:  p.R1117X mutation of FANCA gene in Tunisian Fanconi Anemia patients: prevalence and phenotype-genotype correlation 
  - DOI: 10.1186/s13023-019-1127-3
  - Author: Mejri, N., et al.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**