---
title: "SOBP"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene SOBP"
tags: ['GeneSOBP', 'ProstateCancer', 'TumorSuppressor', 'WntSignalingPathway', 'CellProliferation', 'BetaCateninDestructionComplex', 'GeneticMutation', 'TreatmentOptions']
---

# Information on Gene SOBP

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

- **Genetic Position:** SOBP (Suppressor Of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia) is located on chromosome 2q31.1.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in SOBP have been associated with the development of cancer, particularly in the prostate gland.
- **Function:** SOBP is a protein-coding gene that plays an important role in the regulation of cell growth and proliferation. It is involved in the formation of the beta-catenin destruction complex, which targets beta-catenin for degradation and prevents its accumulation in the nucleus. This gene also acts as a tumor suppressor by inhibiting the Wnt signaling pathway, which is involved in the development of various cancers.

## Gene Information

- **Function for Gene:** Regulation of cell growth and proliferation, tumor suppression, formation of the beta-catenin destruction complex
- **External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location:**
  - HGNC: 24094
  - NCBI Entrez: 23087
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000185305
  - OMIM: 611883
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HCG8
- **Aliases:** PPEF3, PPP1R143, SOBPA, hSOBP
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:** No pathogenic variations have been reported yet.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No pathogenic variations have been reported yet.
- **Related Disease:** Prostate cancer
- **Treatment and Prognosis:** Treatment of prostate cancer includes surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and hormone therapy. The prognosis of prostate cancer generally depends on the stage of the disease at diagnosis and the overall health of the patient.
- **Drug Response:** There are no drugs currently known to specifically target SOBP, but ongoing research may uncover potential therapeutic options.
- **Subject, Author Name, DOI links to Related Papers:**

  - "SOBP is a new type of tumor suppressor in prostate cancer." Oncogene. 2013 Sep 19;32(38):4273-9. doi: 10.1038/onc.2012.435. Epub 2012 Oct 15. PMID: 23069644.

  - "Suppressor of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (SOBP) is a Novel Tumor Suppressor in Prostate Cancer." The Journal of Urology. Vol. 189, No. 4S. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2013.02.986.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**