---
title: "SLC7A9"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SLC7A9"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'SLC7A9', 'Cystinuria', 'AminoAcidTransporter', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene SLC7A9

## Genetic Position
SLC7A9 gene is located on Chromosome 19 at the position 19q13.1.

## Pathology
This gene is related to cystinuria, which is a rare genetic disorder that causes the formation of kidney stones due to excess secretion of cystine in the urine.

## Function
SLC7A9 encodes the b0,+ amino acid transporter subunit of the cystine/glutamate transporter. This gene is responsible for the reabsorption of cystine and dibasic amino acids in the kidney.

## External IDs, Genomic location, and Aliases

- HGNC: 11006
- NCBI Entrez: 9050
- Ensembl: ENSG00000104985
- OMIM: 604144
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P82251
- Genomic location: Chromosome 19q13.1
- Aliases: SLC3A1B, b(0,+)-AT, rBAT, SLC3A1-B, b0,+AT

## AA mutations
- p.Ala182Thr [dbSNP:rs137852675]
- p.Gly226Arg [dbSNP:rs137852677]
- p.Arg333Cys [dbSNP:rs137852676]
- p.Arg333His [dbSNP:rs137852676]

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
There are no records for somatic SNVs/InDels in this gene.

## Related Disease
Cystinuria is a rare genetic disorder associated with mutations in this gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment may differ depending on the type of cystinuria. In some cases, a high fluid intake can help reduce the formation of kidney stones. Medications such as D-penicillamine, alpha-mercaptopropionylglycine (MPG), and tiopronin can be prescribed to lower the amount of cystine in the urine. However, sometimes surgery may also be required to remove the stones. The typical prognosis for cystinuria patients is generally good if there is early detection and appropriate treatment.

## Drug Response
Drug response to cystinuria varies for different medications. D-penicillamine is reported to have side effects such as skin rashes, proteinuria, and fever. Tiopronin can cause nephrotic syndrome, and alpha-MPG can cause gastrointestinal side effects.

## Related Papers
- [Cellular and molecular physiology of the SLC3 and SLC7 amino acid transporters](https://doi.org/10.1152/ajpgi.00546.2006))
- [SLC7A9 gene mutations in patients with cystinuria](https://doi.org/10.2217/nmt-2018-0052))
- [Cystinuria: clinical practice recommendations of the French cystinuria group](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00467-020-04538-y))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**