---
title: "NPR2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: NPR2"
tags: ['NPR2', 'GeneticInformation', 'CardiovascularDevelopment', 'SkeletalGrowth', 'Mutation', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene: NPR2

### Function:
The NPR2 gene encodes for natriuretic peptide receptor B (NPR-B), a membrane-bound receptor that regulates cardiovascular and skeletal growth and development.

### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC ID: 7989
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 4882
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000102144
- OMIM ID: 108961
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P20594
- Aliases: ANPBR, Atrial natriuretic peptide receptor 2, Guanylate cyclase B, NPR-B

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:

|Type|AA Mutation|dbSNP ID|
|----|-----------|--------|
|Missense| p.Met420Ile |rs367543064|
|Missense| p.Leu305Phe |rs1057517709|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
|SNV|dbSNP ID|
|---|--------|
|c.1938C>T|rs142804031|
|c.1883A>G|rs1057517709|

### Related Disease: 
- Acromesomelic dysplasia, Maroteaux RM type (OMIM: 602875)
- Epimetaphyseal dysplasia, type I (OMIM: 127800)
- Multiple Epiphyseal Dysplasia (OMIM: 132400)

### Treatment and Prognosis:
There is no known cure for the disorders associated with mutations in the NPR2 gene. Treatment may involve symptom management and supportive care.

### Drug Response:
No specific drug response is known for disorders associated with mutations in the NPR2 gene.

### Related papers:
- **Subject:** NPR2 variants conferring susceptibility to childhood asthma. 
    - **Author:** Zhu X, Tang W, Zhang X, et al.
    - **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaci.2009.01.036)

- **Subject:** A novel NPR2 mutation in a Chinese patient with acromesomelic dysplasia, Maroteaux type.
    - **Author:** Li L, Sun X, Shetty S, et al.
    - **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/ajmg.a.35991)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**