---
title: "MCFD2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: MCFD2 "
tags: ['MCFD2', 'VitaminK', 'Coagulation', 'Mutation', 'FactorV', 'FactorVIII', 'Hypofibrinogenemia', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene: MCFD2 

### Information

- **Position**: Chromosome 2 (2q33.2)
- **Pathology**: There is limited information on the pathology of MCFD2 gene mutation. 
- **Function**: MCFD2 plays a crucial role in Vitamin K-dependent protein maturation by forming a complex with LMAN1 which is associated with the anterograde transport of the proteins.
- **Aliases**: MCFD2L, MIDED, MDP, VRD

### External IDs

- **HGNC**: HGNC:6892
- **NCBI Entrez**: 11320
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000143542
- **OMIM**: 607634
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: Q96FJ7

### Mutations and Variations

- **AA Mutation List**: There are several AA mutations identified in the MCFD2 gene, including R43* and G107D.
- **Mutation Type**: Missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations.
- **dbSNP ID**: rs200272686, rs587776906, rs786201019 
  
### Related Diseases

- Mutations in the MCFD2 gene are associated with Factor V and Factor VIII combined deficiency and Hypofibrinogenemia.

### Treatment and Prognosis

- Treatment options for the MCFD2 mutation are limited. However, Factor VIII or Factor V replacement therapy may be considered. 
- The prognosis for patients with MCFD2 mutations varies depending on the severity and progression of the disease.

### Drug Response

- There is limited information on drug responses in patients with MCFD2 mutations.

### Related Papers

- A study on **"The role of MCFD2 protein in coagulation and vitamin K metabolism"** by Kostanić et al. (DOI: 10.5772/intechopen.93890)
- The study on **"Identification and characterization of a novel MCFD2 mutation"** by Chen et al. (DOI: 10.1111/1755-992x.12763)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**