---
title: "CLPP"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene CLPP"
tags: ['CLPP', 'MitochondrialFunction', 'PerraultSyndrome', 'GeneticVariants', 'OvarianDysgenesis', 'SensorineuralHearingLoss', 'AutosomalRecessive', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene CLPP

**Genetic Position**: Chromosome 19q13.33 (from 52,317,194 bp to 52,348,710 bp)

**Function**: The CLPP gene encodes a mitochondrial matrix protein that belongs to the peptidase family S14. This protein plays a crucial role in the regulation of mitochondrial function by processing proteins that are imported into the mitochondria.

**External IDs, Genomic Location and Aliases**:
- HGNC: 2036
- NCBI Entrez: 8192
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105657
- OMIM: 601119
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P50656

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID**: 
- c.691C>T (p.Pro231Leu) rs149719862
- c.26C>A (p.Ala9Asp) rs200673115

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**:
None reported

**Related Disease**: 
Variants in the CLPP gene have been reported to cause Perrault syndrome, which is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by sensorineural hearing loss in both males and females, and ovarian dysgenesis in females.

**Treatment and prognosis**
At present, there is no known cure for Perrault syndrome. The prognosis varies depending on the severity of the symptoms and the age of onset.

**Drug response**
At present, there are no drugs that specifically target the CLPP gene.

**Related Papers**:

- Subject: Identification of novel CLPP mutations in Chinese children with Perrault syndrome
  - Author: Shen L, Li ZZ, Zhang QJ, et al.
  - DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymgmr.2019.100528)

- Subject: Genetics of autosomal recessive primary ovarian insufficiency
  - Author: Qin Y, Jiao X, Simpson JL, et al.
  - DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10815-012-9878-7)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**