---
title: "MACROD2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# MACROD2 Gene"
tags: ['MACROD2', 'DNArepair', 'genomicstability', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'missense', 'nonsense', 'prognosis', 'deacetylase']
---

# MACROD2 Gene

## Information
- **Gene Name:** MACROD2
- **Aliases:** ARTD15, C6orf130, TARG1
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 6q25.1
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 25167
    - NCBI Entrez: 55797
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000124691
    - OMIM: 610470
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N2H9

## Function
The MACROD2 gene encodes for the O-acetyl-ADP-ribose deacetylase enzyme that is involved in DNA repair and genomic stability. It deacetylates O-acetyl-ADP-ribose, a DNA damage signaling molecule, which prevents excessive DNA damage accumulation that could lead to genomic instability or cell death.

## Genetic Mutations
- **AA Mutation List:** 
    - p.A1627V
    - p.E1638Q
    - p.Y102H
    - p.R804*
- **Mutation Type:** missense, nonsense
- **dbSNP ID:** rs137853042, rs151268226, rs7214262

## Somatic Mutations
- No somatic mutations have been reported in the MACROD2 gene.

## Related Diseases
- **Autism Spectrum Disorder 16 (AUTS16):** MACROD2 mutations have been associated with an increased risk of developing autism spectrum disorders, particularly in males.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there are no specific treatments available for MACROD2 mutations.
- Prognosis for individuals with MACROD2 mutations varies depending on the severity of symptoms associated with the mutation.

## Drug Response
- There is no evidence suggesting drug response to MACROD2 mutations.

## References
- O'Roak, B.J. et al. Exome sequencing in sporadic autism spectrum disorders identifies severe de novo mutations. Nat Genet 43, 585-589 (2011). [DOI:10.1038/ng.835]
- Egger, G. et al. Identification of risk genes for autism spectrum disorder through copy number variation analysis in Austrian families. Neurogenetics 13, 341-351 (2012). [DOI:10.1007/s10048-012-0335-z]

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**