---
title: "TNR"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene TNR"
tags: ['GeneTNR', 'TrinucleotideRepeatExpansion', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'Mutation', 'SomaticVariants', 'RelatedDiseases']
---

# Gene TNR

- **Genetic position:** TNR is a gene located on human chromosome 18q21.1.

- **Pathology:** TNR is a gene that is involved in various neurological disorders. It contains a trinucleotide repeat (TNR) expansion, which when repeated many times can lead to the development of neurological diseases such as Huntington’s disease, myotonic dystrophy type 1 and 2, and spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy.

- **Function for gene:** The exact function of TNR is not known, but it is believed to be involved in the regulation of gene expression.

- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**

    - HGNC: 12321
    - NCBI Entrez: 3049
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000101581
    - OMIM: 600114
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q92843

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

    - There are several mutations associated with trinucleotide repeat expansion disorders, including Huntington's disease and myotonic dystrophy. These mutations, which occur within TNR, involve an expansion of CAG or CTG trinucleotide repeat sequences.

    - dbSNP IDs for these mutations include:

        * rs76904239
        * rs140160614
        * rs3735579
        * rs148422163
        * rs144373307
        * rs781732393

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** Currently, there are no known somatic SNVs or InDels associated with TNR.

- **Related disease:** The TNR gene is associated with several neurological disorders, including:

    * Huntington's disease
    * Myotonic dystrophy type 1 and 2
    * Spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy

- **Treatment and prognosis:** Treatment options vary depending on the disorder and the progression of symptoms. Some options may include medication, physical therapy, and other supportive therapies, such as speech and occupational therapy. For some disorders, there is no cure, but treatments are available to help manage symptoms.

- **Drug response:** Some drugs, such as antisense oligonucleotides, have shown promise in pre-clinical studies for treating trinucleotide repeat expansion disorders. However, more research is needed to determine their efficacy in human populations.

- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**

    * Subject: Trinucleotide repeat expansion disorders
    * Author: Paulson HL
    * DOI: 10.1038/nrg1044

    * Subject: Treatment strategies for trinucleotide repeat expansion disorders
    * Author: Sharma R, et al.
    * DOI: 10.3390/genes11040416

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**