---
title: "PAX3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PAX3"
tags: ['GeneticPosition', 'Pathology', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'DevelopmentalProcesses', 'Mutation', 'TargetedTherapy', 'WaardenburgSyndrome', 'AlveolarRhabdomyosarcoma']
---

# Information about Gene PAX3

## Genetic Position
PAX3 is located on chromosome 2 at position q35.

## Pathology
The PAX3 gene is associated with various pathologies such as Waardenburg syndrome type 1, alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma, and craniofacial-deafness-hand syndrome.

## Function
The PAX3 gene encodes a transcription factor that is critical for the development of neural crest cells and muscles. It is involved in the regulation of various developmental processes including segmentation, myogenesis, and pigmentation.

## External IDs
- Gene ID: 5077
- Genomic location: Chr2q35
- Aliases: WS1, HUP2, FKHR, PAX3-FKHR

## External Sites
- HGNC: 8582
- NCBI Entrez: 5077
- Ensembl: ENSG00000134045
- OMIM: 606597
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P23760

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- R203H, Missense, dbSNP: rs112593695
- R271H, Missense, dbSNP: rs267607660
- R243Q, Missense, dbSNP: rs267607661
- R175H, Missense, dbSNP: rs784225898

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.547-1G>A, Splice, dbSNP: rs267607662
- c.547-2A>G, Splice, dbSNP: n/a

## Related Disease
Waardenburg syndrome type 1, alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma, craniofacial-deafness-hand syndrome

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment options and prognosis vary depending on the specific pathology associated with mutations in PAX3. In general, treatment may involve surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, and/or targeted therapy.

## Drug Response
The specific drug response to PAX3 mutations has not been extensively studied. However, targeted therapies such as crizotinib and larotrectinib may be effective in certain cases of alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma.

## References
- Tassabehji M, Read AP, Newton VE, Harris R, Balling R, Gruss P, Strachan T (1993). "Waardenburg's syndrome patients have mutations in the human homologue of the Pax-3 paired box gene.". Nature. 355 (6361): 635–6. DOI: [10.1038/355635a0]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/355635a0).)
- Barr FG, Galili N, Holick J, Biegel JA, Rovera G, Emanuel BS (1993). "Rearrangement of the PAX3 paired box gene in the paediatric solid tumour alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma.". Nature Genetics. 3 (2): 113–7. DOI: [10.1038/ng0293-113]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng0293-113).)
- Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) PAX3: <[Click](https://www.omim.org/entry/606597>)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**