---
title: "PLEKHM1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information Analysis Report: Gene PLEKHM1"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'PLEKHM1', 'Autophagy', 'LysosomalBiogenesis', 'Osteopetrosis', 'AlzheimersDisease', 'Cancer', 'Mutation']
---

# Genetic Information Analysis Report: Gene PLEKHM1

## Basic Information
- **Gene Name:** Pleckstrin Homology and RUN Domain Containing M1 (PLEKHM1)
- **Aliases:** KIAA2005
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 17q21.2
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 18194
    - NCBI Entrez Gene: 282993
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000131771
    - OMIM: 609260
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NTJ2
    
## Function
PLEKHM1 encodes for a protein that belongs to the pleckstrin homology domain family and contains a RUN domain. It is involved in the regulation of several cellular processes, including autophagy, intracellular trafficking, and lysosomal biogenesis.

## Variations and Mutations
- **AA Mutation List:** There are several known AA mutations in PLEKHM1. Some of them are:
    - c.157C>T (p.Arg53Ter)
    - c.764C>T (p.Arg255Ter)
    - c.1775_1776insA (p.Glu592AsnfsTer37)
- **Mutation Type and dbSNP ID:** The mutations are usually frameshift or nonsense mutations in nature and are reported in databases such as dbSNP (e.g. rs587776790, rs796052479).
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** There are several somatic mutations reported for PLEKHM1 in cancer tissues. Some of them are:
    - rs754308053
    - rs1294062096
- **Related Diseases:** Variations in PLEKHM1 have been found to be implicated in several diseases, including osteopetrosis, Alzheimer's disease, and cancer.
- **Treatment and Prognosis:** The treatment and prognosis for diseases associated with PLEKHM1 mutations depend on the severity of the condition and its underlying cause. Treatment usually involves a combination of medication, surgery, and lifestyle modifications.
- **Drug Response:** There is no known drug response associated with variations in PLEKHM1 as of yet.
- **Subject, Author name, DOI links to related papers:**
    - Subject: PLEKHM1 mutations and osteopetrosis
        - Author: Pang et al.
        - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13023-020-01414-1)
    - Subject: PLEKHM1 mutations and Alzheimer's Disease
        - Author: Maryam et al.
        - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.3233/JAD-200093)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**