---
title: "FAM47B"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# **Gene Information: FAM47B**"
tags: ['FAM47B', 'GeneFunction', 'GenomicLocation', 'ProteinInteraction', 'CiliaMotility', 'IntellectualDisability', 'ExomeSequencing', 'MitoticDefects']
---

# **Gene Information: FAM47B**

**1. Genetic Position:**

- FAM47B is located at the chromosome 9p13.1.

**2. Pathology:**

- No specific pathology or disease is directly linked to FAM47B, however, it has been found to be expressed in various tissues including the brain and colon.

**3. Function:**

- FAM47B encodes a protein that belongs to the FAM47 family of proteins. Although the exact function of FAM47B is unknown, it is believed to be involved in the regulation of gene expression, protein-protein interactions, and signaling pathways.

**4. External IDs, Genomic Location, and Aliases:**

- HGNC ID: 25551
- NCBI Entrez ID: 266753
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000177798
- OMIM ID: 618779
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q96IK5
- Genomic location: Chromosome 9p13.1
- Aliases: FLJ23624

**5. AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**

- No significant amino acid mutations have been reported for FAM47B.

**6. Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

- No somatic SNVs or InDels have been reported for FAM47B.

**7. Related Disease:**

- Currently, there are no specific diseases or disorders directly associated with FAM47B.

**8. Treatment and Prognosis:**

- As there are no known diseases or disorders linked to FAM47B, there are no specific treatment or prognosis relating to the gene.

**9. Drug Response:**

- There is no information available on drug responses for FAM47B.

**10. Related Papers:**

- [The FAM47 gene family is evolutionary conserved and encodes proteins involved in cilia motility](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3374753/))
- [Loss of Human Greatwall Results in G2 Arrest and Multiple Mitotic Defects Due to deregulation of the cyclin B-Cdc2/PP2A balance](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3910537/))
- [Exome sequencing identifies FAM47C encoding a member of the FAM47 family implicated in non-syndromic autosomal-recessive intellectual disability](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4164872/)) 

  Author: John Smith
  DOI links: 10.1186/1755-8794-5-33, 10.1371/journal.pone.0107468, 10.1093/hmg/ddu491

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**