---
title: "AQP1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information of Gene AQP1"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'AQP1', 'WaterChannelProtein', 'DiseaseLink', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'CancerTherapy', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Genetic Information of Gene AQP1

## Gene Information

**Function for Gene:** AQP1 (Aquaporin 1) gene encodes a water channel protein that regulates water movement across cell membranes.

**External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases:**

- HGNC: 633
- NCBI Entrez: 358
- Ensembl: ENSG00000163932
- OMIM: 107776
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P29972

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID**

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|V32L|Missense|rs387906926|
|N49S|Missense|rs141992473|
|T53P|Missense|rs387906927|
|M83L|Missense|rs761623440|
|Q136R|Missense|rs138798390|
|L159H|Missense|rs387906930|
|P185L|Missense|rs387906931|
|T196M|Missense|rs767468313|
|E196K|Missense|rs387906932|
|P199L|Missense|rs387906933|

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No data available

**Related Disease:** Mutations in the AQP1 gene have been linked to a range of diseases such as Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, Sarcoidosis, and Primary biliary cirrhosis.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** Treatment and prognosis of AQP1 gene related diseases depends on the specific disease and severity. Consultation with a medical specialist is recommended for appropriate treatment and management.

**Drug Response:** The AQP1 gene has been studied as a potential therapeutic target for cancer therapy. The drug "Furanodienone" has been shown to suppress tumor growth in lung cancer by inhibiting the expression of AQP1.

**Related Papers:**

- Subject: Aquaporin-1 in human cancer.
  - Author: Otterbach F, Callies R, Adamzik M, Kimmig R, Siffert W, Schmitz M.
  - DOI: 10.17925/ENR.2008.03.01.17
- Subject: Furanodienone impedes tumor growth and metastasis by inhibiting canonical WNT/beta-catenin signaling pathway via downregulating Aquaporin-1 in non-small cell lung cancer.
  - Author: Qian X, Li X, Lu Z, Huang M, Xie M, Cai Q, Tian L, Huang Q, Yang Y, Wang X, Gao J, Lu H.
  - DOI: 10.7150/thno.25297

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**