---
title: "AKR1B1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene AKR1B1"
tags: ['AKR1B1', 'AldoseReductase', 'GeneticMutation', 'DiabeticComplications', 'Cancer', 'Neurodegeneration', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information on Gene AKR1B1

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Genetic Position:** AKR1B1 gene is located on the chromosome 7q33 and spans 73.2 kilobases (kb).
- **Pathology:** Mutations in the AKR1B1 gene are linked to various diseases including diabetic complications, cancer, aging, and neurodegeneration.
- **Function:** The AKR1B1 gene encodes for Aldose Reductase (AKR1B1), which is a member of the aldo-keto reductase superfamily. AKR1B1 mediates the reduction of glucose to sorbitol during the polyol pathway. It also plays a role in the detoxification of reactive aldehydes, such as 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE).

## Gene information
- **Function of Gene:** To encode for Aldose Reductase enzyme
- **External IDs:** HGNC: 416, NCBI Entrez: 231, Ensembl: ENS00000362763, OMIM: 103880, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P15121
- **Aliases:** ALDR1, AR, aldehyde reductase, DD, MGC14142

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are several Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) in the AKR1B1 gene. Some of the most notable ones, along with the mutation type and the corresponding dbSNP ID, are as follows:
- rs759853: A/G, missense
- rs759952483: C/T, missense, likely pathogenic
- rs16941243: A/G, missense, likely pathogenic
- rs4646421: A/C, missense

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are few Somatic SNVs/InDels in the AKR1B1 gene. Some of the most notable ones, along with the corresponding dbSNP ID, are as follows:
- rs776600695: T/A
- rs786200287: C/T

## Related Disease
AKR1B1 mutations are linked to various diseases, including:
- Diabetic complications
- Cancer
- Aging
- Neurodegeneration

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for AKR1B1 mutations. Treatment is generally focused on managing symptoms associated with diseases linked to AKR1B1 mutations.
Prognosis depends on the specific disease and its severity.

## Drug Response
There is currently no specific drug targeting AKR1B1 mutations. However, studies suggest that Aldose Reductase inhibitors may be effective for treating diabetic complications.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** Aldose Reductase Inhibitors: A Potential New Class of Antidepressant Agents
    - **Author:** Pae CU, Lim SW, Lee C-U, Paik IH.
    - **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.npp.1301234)
- **Subject:** Aldose Reductase Inhibitor as an Emerging Tool to Treat Neurodegenerative Disorders
	- **Author:** Siddique R, Faizi MSH, Ali SN, Rizvi SAR, Nazir A.
	- **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-67167-8_10)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**