---
title: "PRY2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene PRY2"
tags: ['GenePRY2', 'RibosomeBiogenesis', 'GeneticLocation', 'Function', 'NoKnownDisease', 'NoKnownDrugResponse', 'LimitedInformation', 'NoKnownMutations']
---

# Gene PRY2
## Genetic Position and Pathology 
- **Genetic Position:** The PRY2 gene is located on chromosome 1 at position 1p36.11.
- **Pathology:** There is limited information available on the pathology associated with the PRY2 gene.

## Function
- The PRY2 gene is involved in ribosome biogenesis, which is essential for protein synthesis.

## External IDs/Aliases
- **Genomic Location:** 1p36.11
- **HGNC ID:** HGNC:26169
- **NCBI Entrez Gene ID:** 127281
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000143384
- **OMIM ID:** 614614
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** Q8N2L1
- **Aliases:** PRY1, FLJ26873

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- There are no known amino acid mutations associated with the PRY2 gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels associated with the PRY2 gene.

## Related Disease
- There are no known diseases associated with the PRY2 gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is limited information available on the treatment and prognosis associated with the PRY2 gene.

## Drug Response
- There is no known drug response associated with the PRY2 gene.

## Related Papers
- [Identification and characterization of human PRY1 and PRY2 genes, homologues to the mouse gene for a novel peptide YY precursor-associated protein]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12606271/)
- [Restricted expression of human and mouse embryonic PREY genes during development]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17433399/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**