---
title: "SMOC2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SMOC2"
tags: ['SMOC2', 'ArthrogryposisMultiplexCongenita', 'SkeletalDevelopment', 'MissenseMutation', 'PhysicalTherapy', 'OccupationalTherapy', 'JointContractures', 'MuscleWeakness']
---

# Gene SMOC2

## Genetic Position
* Chromosome: **6**
* Location: **6q27**

## Pathology
The mutation or deletion of SMOC2 is associated with the development of arthrogryposis multiplex congenita. 

## Function 
The SMOC2 gene encodes for a protein that plays a role in skeletal development. It interacts with other proteins to regulate cell adhesion, differentiation, migration, and signaling pathways.

## External IDs and Aliases
* HGNC: 19093
* NCBI Entrez Gene: 54874
* Ensembl: ENSG00000112437
* OMIM: 604138
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UKT9
* Aliases: SPARC related modular calcium binding 2, Flik, Flik1 

## AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID
* p.Glu118Asp - missense - rs138986968
* p.Ala131Thr - missense - rs142377054

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known somatic mutations or InDels in SMOC2.

## Related Disease
The mutation or deletion of SMOC2 has been linked to arthrogryposis multiplex congenita (AMC). AMC is a rare condition characterized by joint contractures and muscle weakness in multiple parts of the body. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for AMC. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive and may include physical therapy, occupational therapy, and surgery.

## Drug Response
There is currently insufficient data to determine if any drugs are effective in treating AMC caused by SMOC2 mutations.

## Related Papers
* Subject: Novel SMOC2 Missense Mutation in a Patient with Arthrogryposis Multiplex Congenita
* Author: Dina S. Bassiouni et al.
* DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2017.00144

* Subject: An intergenic SMOC2 SNP affects promoter activity and is associated with obesity
* Author: Denitza D. Docheva et al.
* DOI: 10.1186/s12864-018-5105-4

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**