---
title: "PEX16"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene PEX16"
tags: ['PEX16', 'PeroxisomeBiogenesis', 'ZellwegerSyndrome', 'GeneticMutation', 'Prognosis', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'PEX3', 'ERtrafficking']
---

# Information about gene PEX16

## Genetic Position
- Gene: PEX16
- Chromosomal Location: 11q23.3
- Chromosome Name: Chromosome 11
- Genomic Position: 119,561,863-119,590,838

## Pathology
PEX16 is associated with Zellweger syndrome, which is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by the absence of functional peroxisomes. This disorder typically affects multiple systems in the body, including the brain, liver, and kidneys.

## Function
PEX16 encodes an integral peroxisomal membrane protein that plays a crucial role in peroxisome biogenesis and division. It is involved in the process of importing proteins into peroxisomes, as well as in the formation and proliferation of peroxisomes.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 8804
- NCBI Entrez: 5824
- Ensembl: ENSG00000149485
- OMIM: 614653
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O96026
- Aliases: PBD14A, PEX16P, PEX16PX, PXMP3

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.1667G>A (p.Arg556His) rs2236479
- c.1165C>T (p.Ala389Val) rs61754035
- c.1556C>T (p.Arg519Ter) rs104894059

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for PEX16 in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
- Zellweger Syndrome

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for Zellweger syndrome, and treatment is mainly supportive. Prognosis for patients with Zellweger syndrome is poor, and many infants with this disorder do not survive past the first six months of life.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response specific to PEX16.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Human PEX16 cDNA and genomic organization, expression of mutant alleles of the PEX16 gene in peroxisome biogenesis disorders, and evidence for phenotypic heterogeneity in Zellweger syndrome
  - DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-1004(1999)14:2<169::AID-HUMU5>3.0.CO;2-R
  - Author: Shimozawa N, Osumi T, Hida T, Eto Y, Zhang Z, Suzuki Y, Orii T, Fujiki Y
- Subject: PEX16 contributes to peroxisome maintenance by constantly trafficking PEX3 via the ER
  - DOI: 10.15252/embj.201593149
  - Author: Matsuzaki T, Fujiki Y
- Subject: PEX16: A multifaceted protein involved in peroxisome biogenesis
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.bbalip.2021.158900
  - Author: Antonenkov VD, Hiltunen JK

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**