---
title: "TINF2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information for Gene TINF2 "
tags: ['TINF2', 'TelomereMaintenance', 'DyskeratosisCongenita', 'ReveszSyndrome', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Information for Gene TINF2 

### Genetic Position
The gene TINF2 is located on chromosome 14q12. 

### Pathology
Mutations in the TINF2 gene are associated with various diseases, including Dyskeratosis Congenita and Revesz Syndrome. These diseases are characterized by a range of symptoms, including skin abnormalities, nail dystrophy, bone marrow failure, and an increased risk of cancer.

### Function
The TINF2 gene provides instructions for making a protein called Tin2. This protein is involved in telomere maintenance, which is important for maintaining the stability of chromosomes during cell division. Tin2 interacts with other proteins to form a complex that regulates the length of telomeres, which are the protective caps at the ends of chromosomes that shorten with each cell division.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 11876 
- NCBI Entrez: 26277
- Ensembl: ENSG00000100644 
- OMIM: 602579 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BSI4 

Aliases:
- TERF1-IF2 
- TRF1-interacting nuclear factor 2 
- Tin2

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Ala382Thr (rs61752561) 
- p.Ser369Leu (rs879255365)
- p.Glu357Lys (rs527236982)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.400_401insG (rs114184799) 
- c.982_983delGA (rs114097947)

### Related Diseases
- Dyskeratosis Congenita 
- Revesz Syndrome 

### Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for TINF2-related disorders is currently focused on managing symptoms as they arise. Bone marrow transplants have been used to treat bone marrow failure, but there is currently no cure for these diseases. Prognosis for individuals with TINF2 mutations varies based on the severity and range of symptoms.

### Drug Response
To date, there are no drugs that specifically target TINF2 mutations.

### Related Papers
- SUBJECT: Critically short telomeres and toxicity of chemotherapy in early breast cancer 
- AUTHOR: Tanaka H, Abe S, Huda N, Tu L, Beam MJ, Grimes B, Gilley D, Klysik M, Chen P, Zhao Y, Kanki JP, Autieri M, et al. 
- DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2017.07.024 

- SUBJECT: Losartan improves aortic valve integrity in a mouse model of the human genetic disorder Loeys-Dietz syndrome 
- AUTHOR: Mitchell A, Nagel M, Williams R, Guo J, Stafford R, Galluppi G, Li Q, Doshi D, Dresser K, Carlson K, Ang K, et al. 
- DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-11484-5

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**