---
title: "IFT43"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene IFT43"
tags: ['GeneIFT43', 'Ciliopathy', 'ShortRibThoracicDysplasia', 'IntraflagellarTransportProtein', 'RespiratoryDistress', 'NonSyndromicRetinalDegeneration', 'GeneticMutation', 'SupportiveTreatment']
---

# Information about Gene IFT43

## Genetic Position

Gene IFT43 is located on Chromosome 14 at position 14q24.3.

## Pathology and Function

The IFT43 gene codes for intraflagellar transport protein 43 (IFT43), which is involved in the formation and maintenance of cilia and flagella. Cilia and flagella are organelles that are responsible for several important physiological processes ranging from motility and sensation sensing to signaling and development. Mutations in the IFT43 gene have been associated with short-rib thoracic dysplasia and some other ciliopathy-related disorders.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 17992
- NCBI Entrez: 80206
- Ensembl: ENSG00000100803
- OMIM: 614647
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BQE3

Aliases: FLJ38322, IFT43L1, KIAA1842

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

No known AA mutations have been reported for the IFT43 gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

No known somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for the IFT43 gene.

## Related Disease

Mutations in the IFT43 gene have been associated with the following diseases:

- Short-rib thoracic dysplasia
- Other ciliopathy-related disorders 

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no specific treatment for IFT43-related disorders. Treatment is usually symptomatic and supportive and may involve management of respiratory distress, nutritional support, and orthopedic interventions (depending on the severity of skeletal anomalies). The prognosis may vary depending on the severity of the disorder and associated complications.

## Drug Response

Currently, there is no known drug that specifically targets IFT43-related disorders.

## Related Papers

- Author: Chen X, Yang H, Huang R, et al.
  - Title: A Novel Homozygous IFT43 Mutation Causes Non-Syndromic Retinal Degeneration in Chinese Families
  - Journal: Genes
  - DOI: 10.3390/genes10100765
  
- Author: Shaheen R, Szymanska K, Basu B, et al.
  - Title: Characterizing the morbid genome of ciliopathies
  - Journal: Genome Biology
  - DOI: 10.1186/s13059-016-0943-5

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**