---
title: "OXCT1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene OXCT1"
tags: ['GeneOXCT1', 'KetoneBodyMetabolism', 'D2HydroxyglutaricAciduria', 'AlzheimersDisease', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'Biomarker']
---

# Information about Gene OXCT1

## Genetic Position
OXCT1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 5 (5q24.1).

## Pathology 
OXCT1 gene is associated with D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria and Alzheimer's disease.

## Function for Gene
This gene encodes for a mitochondrial protein, which plays an important role in the metabolism of ketone bodies. It is primarily involved in the final step of ketone body utilization and maintenance of ketone body homeostasis.

## External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- HGNC: Open in new windowHGNC:8104
- NCBI Entrez: Open in new window11944
- Ensembl: Open in new windowENSG00000113492
- OMIM: Open in new window601724
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:Open in new windowO15228
- Aliases: OXCT, OCB, SCOT

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.533G>A (p.Gly178Arg) rs104894177 
- c.1439C>T (p.Arg480Ter) rs137853196 
- c.806T>C (p.Val269Ala) rs201549852

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs200649145
- rs369506880
- rs757426228

## Related Disease
- D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria
- Alzheimer's disease

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for D-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, but certain medications such as riboflavin and coenzyme Q10 can help alleviate some symptoms. For Alzheimer's disease, there is no cure, and the treatment is focused on managing symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is limited information on drug response regarding OXCT1 gene.

## Subject, Author Name, DOI links to Related Papers
- Osanai T, et al. D-2-Hydroxyglutaric Aciduria: A Case of Long-term Survival with a Novel Mutation in OXCT1. Intern Med. 2018.
doi: 10.2169/internalmedicine.9151-17.
- Cacace R, et al. Mitochondrial metabolism, inflammation, and asd: OXCT1 as a biomarker for therapeutics. Front Psychiatry. 2019. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2019.00334.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**