---
title: "MIR196A2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene Information"
tags: ['MIR196A2', 'miR-196', 'geneexpression', 'cancer', 'prognosticmarker', 'HOXC8', 'breastcancer', 'livercancer']
---

### Gene Information

**Gene Name:** MIR196A2

**Aliases:** hsa-mir-196a-2

**Genomic Location:** Chromosome 12q13.31

**External IDs:** HGNC:31419, NCBI Entrez:406948, Ensembl:ENSG00000256069, OMIM:613725, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:n/a

### Function

MIR196A2 belongs to the miR-196 family, which is involved in the regulation of gene expression related to development and cellular differentiation. Specifically, MIR196A2 has been found to play a role in inhibiting the expression of the HOXC8 gene, which is important for controlling the development of limbs and other structures in the body.

### Mutations

#### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

There are currently no known amino acid mutations for MIR196A2.

#### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are currently no known somatic SNVs or InDels for MIR196A2.

### Related Disease

MIR196A2 has been implicated in a number of different diseases, including various types of cancer. For example, the overexpression of MIR196A2 has been observed in breast cancer and has been correlated with poorer prognosis. Additionally, the downregulation of MIR196A2 has been linked to the development of liver cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis

As MIR196A2 is a non-coding RNA, there are currently no treatments specifically targeting this gene. However, the overexpression or downregulation of MIR196A2 has been associated with various diseases, which may be targets for treatment. Additionally, the expression level of MIR196A2 may serve as a prognostic biomarker for certain cancers.

### Drug Response

There are currently no known drug responses associated with MIR196A2.

### Related Papers

- Liao Y, Lai H. The role of miR-196 family in cancers: A meta-analysis: The miR-196 family in cancers. J Cell Mol Med. 2019;23(1):11-22. doi:10.1111/jcmm.13959
- Huang Q, Huang M, Liao Z, et al. Prognostic Significance and Potential Regulatory Mechanisms of CDC6, MCM2, and MIR-196A2 for Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma. Front Oncol. 2021;11:654888. doi:10.3389/fonc.2021.654888
- Sun J, Yang J, An Y, et al. Overexpression of microRNA-196a2 confers a poor prognosis in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Pathol Res Pract. 2021;220:153267. doi:10.1016/j.prp.2021.153267

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**