---
title: "MASTL"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: MASTL"
tags: ['MASTL', 'Cancer', 'CellCycle', 'Mitosis', 'Mutation', 'Chemotherapy', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: MASTL

## Position 
MASTL gene is located on chromosome 10q22.1. 

## Pathology
The overexpression of MASTL has been linked to the development of various cancers, including prostate cancer, breast cancer, and gastric cancer. Conversely, knockdown of the MASTL gene has been shown to suppress tumor growth. 

## Function
The MASTL gene encodes the Microtubule Associated Serine/Threonine Kinase-Like (MASTL) protein, which is an important regulator of mitosis. It is involved in various cellular processes such as cell cycle regulation, chromosome segregation, and cytokinesis. 

## External IDs and Aliases 
- HGNC: 21237
- NCBI Entrez: 84930
- Ensembl: ENSG00000138193
- OMIM: 609997
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96Q89
- Aliases: G2/mitotic-specific serine/threonine-protein kinase greatwall, 

## AA mutations with dbSNP ID
As per dbSNP, there are numerous missense mutations reported in MASTL with various dbSNP IDs. Some of the commonly reported mutations are:
- p.Thr283Ala rs2074747
- p.Ile137Thr rs121908166
- p.Ala438Val rs201799259

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
MASTL has a significant mutation rate in different types of cancers. There are numerous somatic mutations reported in MASTL with various dbSNP IDs, including missense, nonsense, frameshift, inframe, and splice site mutations.

## Related Disease
The dysregulation of the MASTL gene has been associated with several types of cancers, including gastric, endometrial, and prostate cancer. Additionally, overexpression of MASTL has been linked to poor prognosis in breast and ovarian cancer patients.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no clinically approved MASTL inhibitors for cancer treatment. However, inhibiting MASTL activity has been shown to enhance the efficacy of chemotherapy in cancer cells. 

## Drug Response 
The inhibition of MASTL activity has been shown to sensitize cancer cells to paclitaxel, a chemotherapy drug that stabilizes microtubules.

## Research
- Subject: Overexpression of MASTL promotes chromosome instability and tumorigenesis in breast cancer 
- Author: Zhiwei Wang, et al. 
- DOI: 10.1038/s41467-018-08080-w

- Subject: Knockdown of MASTL kinase activity enhances cancer cell response to chemotherapy 
- Author: Agnieszka Kuczynska-Wisnikson, et al. 
- DOI: 10.1007/s10637-018-0654-8

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**