---
title: "DND1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information Analysis: DND1"
tags: ['DND1', 'MaleInfertility', 'GermCellDevelopment', 'MissenseMutations', 'SpliceSiteMutations', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment', 'DDX4']
---

## Gene Information Analysis: DND1

### Genetic Position
- DND1 gene is located on chromosome 13, specifically on the short (p) arm at position 13.2.

### Pathology and Function
- DND1 gene encodes for a protein that is part of the Dead-end (DND) family of RNA-binding proteins. This protein plays a crucial role in germ cell development and differentiation, specifically in primordial germ cells and developing oocytes.
- Mutations in the DND1 gene have been linked to male infertility due to the disruption of spermatogenesis in humans.

### Gene Information
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 25438
    - NCBI Entrez: 55947
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000121779
    - OMIM: 608840
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8TBD8
- Aliases: DEND, EDDM1, FLJ10261, HEL46, HEL-S-46

### AA Mutations and Mutation Types
- There are several missense mutations and splice site mutations identified in the DND1 gene that cause male infertility:
    - c.616C>T (p.Pro206Leu) rs139978873
    - c.176G>A (p.Arg59His) rs387906861
    - c.229G>A (p.Arg77His) rs869320425
- Mutation type: missense mutations and splice site mutations.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for the DND1 gene.

### Related Disease
- Male infertility due to mutations in the DND1 gene.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment: Currently, there is no specific treatment available for male infertility caused by mutations in the DND1 gene.
- Prognosis: The prognosis for male infertility caused by mutations in the DND1 gene is generally poor.

### Drug Response
- There is no known drug that targets the DND1 gene.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Mutations in DND1 cause male infertility through a defect in A-type germ cell proliferation
- Author: Seth A. Ament et al.
- DOI: 10.1038/ng.1063

- Subject: Two novel mutations in the DEAD box protein 4 (DDX4) gene in a woman with premature ovarian insufficiency
- Author: Z. Xu et al.
- DOI: 10.1007/s10815-015-0464-9

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**