---
title: "IFNG"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene IFNG "
tags: ['GeneIFNG', 'Cytokine', 'Th1CellDifferentiation', 'MultipleSclerosis', 'SystemicLupusErythematosus', 'ChronicGranulomatousDisease', 'CancerTreatment', 'Pharmacokinetics']
---

# Gene IFNG 

## Information 

- **Genetic Position**: Chr12q24.1 
- **Pathology**: Mutations in this gene are associated with susceptibility to mycobacterial and viral infections. Also, it is associated with multiple sclerosis and systemic lupus erythematosus. 
- **Function**: The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cytokine family that is produced by activated T and NK cells. This cytokine is involved in Th1 cell differentiation and inflammatory responses. 

## Gene Details 

- **External IDs**: HGNC:5433, NCBI Entrez:3458, Ensembl:ENSG00000111537, OMIM:147570, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P01579 
- **Aliases**: IFG, IFI, IFN-gamma, IFNG, Immune interferon 

## Mutations 

### AA Mutations 

| Mutation Type | AA Mutation | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Missense | Lys58Arg | rs41473543 |
| Missense | Ser76Cys | rs1046337 |
| Missense | Lys94Arg | rs121908921|
| Missense | Arg127Ser | rs3212227 |
| Missense | Ala140Pro | rs10655311 | 

### Somatic SNVs/InDels 

| Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- |
| Missense | rs1927911 |
| Missense | rs2070729 |

## Related Disease 

- Multiple Sclerosis 
- Systemic Lupus Erythematosus 

## Treatment and Prognosis 

Currently, there are no specific treatments available for IFNG-related disorders. Prognosis depends on the severity of the disease. 

## Drug Response 

IFNG can be used as a therapeutic agent in the treatment of chronic granulomatous disease and certain types of cancer. However, the use of IFNG has also been associated with severe side effects. 

## Related Papers 

- Subject: The molecular basis of susceptibility to mycobacterial infections: 15 years of discoveries 
  - Author: Bustamante, J., Boisson-Dupuis, S., Abel, L., & Casanova, J.-L. 
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2014.12.050
- Subject: Comparative pharmacokinetics, biodistribution and metabolism of a novel IFN-γ product (IBP-IFNγ) with a reference product in rat model 
  - Author: Ding, X., Tong, X., Zhang, J., Wang, G., Zhai, T., Yan, Y., ... & Jia, L. 
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ejps.2019.104928

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**