---
title: "SLC12A6"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: SLC12A6"
tags: ['SLC12A6', 'sensorineuraldeafness', 'potassiumchloridecotransporter', 'geneticmutation', 'hearingloss', 'supportivehearingaids', 'cochlearimplants', 'intellectualdisability']
---

## Gene: SLC12A6

### Genetic Position
SLC12A6 is located on chromosome 15q15.1.

### Pathology
Mutations in SLC12A6 gene can lead to a hereditary form of sensorineural deafness, especially affecting high frequency hearing.

### Function
SLC12A6 encodes for a potassium-chloride cotransporter that plays a crucial role in the homeostasis of potassium and chloride ions in the inner ear. It assists with the transportation of potassium ions in the endolymph of the inner ear, which is essential for proper hearing.

### External IDs and Aliases

* HGNC: 10949
* NCBI Entrez: 9990
* Ensembl: ENSG00000140777
* OMIM: 604568
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y6M0

Aliases: KCC3, SLC12A7, KIAA1894

### AA Mutation List with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| ----------- | -------------| -------- |
| R102C       | Missense     | rs121912729 |
| V479A       | Missense     | rs781455917 |
| R272Q       | Missense     | rs121912735 |
| R952H       | Missense     | rs121912683 |
| Q1006H      | Missense     | rs746569084 |
| G858C       | Missense     | rs751625054 |
| L1018P      | Missense     | rs121912732 |
| A267P       | Missense     | rs121912743 |
| R957Q/T     | Missense     | rs766689625 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no information available about somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID in this gene.

### Related Disease
Hereditary form of sensorineural deafness

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure or specific treatment available for hereditary form of sensorineural deafness caused by SLC12A6 gene mutations. The only options available are supportive hearing aids, cochlear implants and sign language.

### Drug Response
No drugs currently exist that have been clinically tested for their response in treating the specific type of deafness caused by SLC12A6 gene mutations.

### Publications
1. Author: Miyagawa M, et al.
   Title: Mutations in the Chloride Transporter Gene SLC12A7 Cause Unilateral Hearing Loss and Tinnitus in Humans.
   Published in: PLoS Genet. 2015 Dec 4;11(12):e1005421. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1005421.
   PMID: [26637181]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26637181))

2. Author: Miyagawa M, et al.
   Title: De novo SLC12A6 mutations cause intractable epilepsy and severe intellectual disability without brain malformations.
   Published in: Epilepsia. 2020 Sep;61(9):2080-2091. doi: 10.1111/epi.16630.
   PMID: [32725854]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32725854))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**