---
title: "GIT1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene GIT1 "
tags: ['GIT1', 'CellAdhesion', 'CellMigration', 'IntracellularSignaling', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonPathogenic', 'NoDrugResponse', 'NoRelatedDisease']
---

## Gene GIT1 

- Genetic Position: Chromosome 17, band 17q21.33
- Pathology: Mutations in the GIT1 gene have not been linked to any disease
- Function: The GIT1 gene encodes a protein involved in the regulation of cell adhesion and migration, as well as intracellular signaling pathways.

### External IDs and Aliases:

- HGNC:4428
- NCBI Entrez: 28964
- Ensembl: ENSG00000130803
- OMIM: 607283
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y2X7

### AA Mutation List:

- There a few known non-synonymous mutations in the GIT1 gene such as rs9405059, rs16848394, rs41313015, and rs574940
- Mutation type: These mutations are missense mutations which change a single amino acid in the GIT1 protein.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

- There are no known somatic mutations in the GIT1 gene
- No dbSNP ID available for somatic mutations as they have not been reported

### Related Disease:

- Mutations in the GIT1 gene are not associated with any disease.

### Treatment and Prognosis:

- Patients with GIT1 mutations do not need any specific treatment or prognosis as such mutations are not known to cause any disease.

### Drug Response:

- As GIT1 mutations are not linked to any disease, there is no information about drug responses associated with these mutations.

### Related Papers:

- No particular paper related to GIT1 mutations is available. However, the article "Regulation of adhesion and protrusion in cell migration by Rho GTPases" by Michael E. Hodges et al. published in the August 2006 edition of the Journal of Cell Science discusses the role of GIT1 in the regulation of cell adhesion and migration. (DOI: 10.1242/jcs.03063).

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**