---
title: "FANCG"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: FANCG "
tags: ['FANCG', 'DNArepair', 'Fanconianemia', 'chemoresistance', 'prognosis', 'drugresponse', 'genomicstability', 'mutation']
---

## Gene: FANCG 

### Overview
FANCG is a gene that is located on chromosome Xq26.1. This gene encodes for a protein known as Fanconi anemia group G protein. Defects in this gene are known to cause Fanconi anemia. This gene plays a vital role in DNA repair and DNA damage response pathways.

### Function
The FANCG protein is involved in the DNA repair process and maintenance of genomic stability. It is a component of the Fanconi anemia pathway that is responsible for repairing DNA damage caused by cellular stresses. The protein is involved in the functioning and stability of the multiprotein BRCA complex and helps in the timely repair of the damaged DNA.

### External IDs
- HGNC: 3635
- NCBI Entrez: 2188
- Ensembl: ENSG00000101981
- OMIM: 602956
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O15287

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg107*
- p.Glu105Asp (rs138459880)
- p.Arg158*
- p.Gly201Ser
- p.Ser279Phe (rs104894109)
- p.Leu265His (rs386352972)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
- rs55904923
- rs532541273
- rs1064794097

### Related Disease
Defects in FANCG are known to cause Fanconi anemia, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by bone marrow failure and increased risk of cancer. 

### Treatment and prognosis
Currently, the treatment for Fanconi anemia is symptomatic and aims to manage bone marrow failure and cancer risk. In some cases, bone marrow transplantation is also used. The prognosis for Fanconi anemia varies widely depending on the severity of the disease, and presence of other associated health conditions.

### Drug Response
Studies have shown that FANCG deficiency may contribute to chemoresistance in cancer cells, and therefore restoring its function may sensitize the cancer cells to chemotherapy.

### Sources

- García-Higuera I, Kuang Y, Naf D, Wasik J, D'Andrea AD (August 1999). "Fanconi anemia proteins FANCA, FANCC, and FANCG/XRCC9 interact in a functional nuclear complex". Mol. Cell. Biol. 19 (11):  4866–73. DOI: [10.1128/MCB.19.7.4866]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1128/MCB.19.7.4866).)
- An J, Huang YC, Xu QZ, Zhou LJ, Shang ZF, Huang B, Wang Y, Liu XD, Zhao Y, Xie Y, Li YH, Wu DC, Xia Y, Liang T, Chen F, Wu M, Zhou PK, Wang MR, Chen Z, Chen SJ (2020). "FANCG enhances the chemosensitivity of cisplatin by upregulating caspase-3-dependent apoptosis". Oncogene. 39 (23): 4535–4549. DOI: [10.1038/s41388-020-1336-y]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41388-020-1336-y).)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**