---
title: "C1QA"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: C1QA "
tags: ['C1QA', 'ComplementActivation', 'AutoimmuneDisease', 'AlzheimersDisease', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticMutation', 'Inflammation', 'KidneyDisease']
---

# Gene: C1QA 

## Genetic Position
C1QA gene is located on the chromosome 1q21.1 and spans ~15.9 kb in genomic DNA.

## Pathology and Function
C1QA gene encodes the first component of the classical pathway of complement activation. This protein binds to immune complexes that are formed when antibodies bind to their antigens, thereby activating the classical pathway. The activation of the classical pathway leads to the recruitment of immune cells, opsonization of foreign particles, and lysis of target cells.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 1268
- NCBI Entrez: 712
- Ensembl: ENSG00000196367
- OMIM: 120550
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P02745
- Aliases: C1QA2, C1QG, CO1QA, C1Q-A, complement component 1 q subcomponent, A chain

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg14Ter (rs121909870)
- p.Gln62Ter (rs1061145)
- p.Arg145Cys (rs137853027)
- p.Asn164Lys (rs186943167)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs116695589
- rs116693514
- rs116687898

## Related Disease
C1QA gene mutations have been associated with systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and Alzheimer's disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis depend on the associated disease and severity of the condition.

## Drug Response
Drug response is dependent on the associated disease and its treatment plan.

## Related Papers and Authors
- Author: Takao Koike et al.
- Paper Title: C1q/TNF-Related Protein 6 (CTRP6) Links Obesity to Adipose Tissue Inflammation and Insulin Resistance
- DOI: 10.2337/db11-1567

- Author: T. Sigurdsson et al.
- Paper Title: Polymorphisms in the C1qA chain gene (C1QA) and susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)
- DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kem008

- Author: Hua Hai et al.
- Paper Title: Variants in the C1q Advanced Glycation End Product-Specific Receptor A Predict Incident Kidney Disease in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes
- DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0125519

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**