---
title: "MIR510"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene MIR510"
tags: ['GeneMIR510', 'MicroRNA', 'Regulation', 'Dysregulation', 'Cancer', 'CardiovascularDisease', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'Research']
---

# Information about Gene MIR510

## Genetic Position
- Gene: MIR510
- Chromosome: 19
- Start: 29958371 bp
- End: 29958464 bp

## Pathology and Function
- Function: The MIR510 gene encodes a microRNA that is involved in the regulation of various biological processes, including embryonic development, cell proliferation, and apoptosis.
- Related Disease: Some studies have reported that dysregulation of MIR510 expression is associated with various diseases, including cancer, cardiovascular disease, and neurological disorders.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
- External ID: HGNC: 48828
- NCBI Entrez: 100302903
- Ensembl: ENSG00000276049
- OMIM: 610635
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: None available
- Aliases: MIRN510, hsa-mir-510

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- AA Mutation List: There are no known amino acid mutations in the MIR510 gene.
- Mutation Type: None available
- dbSNP ID: None available

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels in the MIR510 gene.
- dbSNP ID: None available

## Treatment and Prognosis
- As MIR510 is still being studied, treatment and prognosis information is not available.

## Drug Response
- As MIR510 is still being studied, drug response information is not available.

## Related Papers
- Subject: The potential regulatory mechanisms of miR-510 in Snail mediated EMT and metastasis of pancreatic cancer cells
  - Author(s): Peng, R., et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2018.07.013

- Subject: MicroRNA-510 promotes proliferation and migration of breast cancer cells by targeting the FOXA1
  - Author(s): Xu, J., et al.
  - DOI: 10.1186/s13046-019-1041-1

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**