---
title: "ATF2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: ATF2"
tags: ['ATF2', 'geneexpression', 'cellgrowth', 'cancer', 'Alzheimersdisease', 'Huntingtonsdisease', 'MAPKpathway', 'therapeuticpotential']
---

## Gene: ATF2
- Function: The ATF2 (Activating Transcription Factor 2) gene produces a protein that is involved in regulating the expression of genes involved in cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis.
- External IDs:
    - HGNC: 787
    - NCBI Entrez: 1386
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000117400
    - OMIM: 601490
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P15336
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 2 (2q32.1)
- Aliases: CRE-BP1, CREB2
- AA mutation list: There are multiple AA mutations listed in the UniProtKB database for ATF2, but the majority of them are not associated with any specific disease or phenotype. 
- Mutation type with dbSNP ID: There are several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) listed in dbSNP for ATF2, including rs111660692 and rs137853955. However, these SNPs have not been associated with any known disease or phenotype. 
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: There are several somatic mutations listed in COSMIC (Catalogue Of Somatic Mutations In Cancer) database for ATF2, including SNVs and InDels. However, these mutations are mostly associated with different types of cancer and have not been linked to any specific disease or phenotype.
- Related disease: The ATF2 gene has been implicated in several diseases, including cancer, Alzheimer's disease, and Huntington's disease. 
- Treatment and prognosis: Since ATF2 is involved in regulating cell growth and differentiation, drugs targeting this pathway may have therapeutic potential for cancer and other diseases. However, further research is needed to determine the efficacy and safety of such treatments.
- Drug response: There are no drugs currently approved by the FDA that specifically target the ATF2 pathway. However, drugs that target related pathways, such as the MAPK pathway, may indirectly affect ATF2 activity.
- Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:
    - Kim HG, Lee KW, Cho YY, et al. (2010) Activating transcription factor 2 as a mediator of NF-kappaB function in H. pylori–induced gastric epithelial cell survival. PLoS ONE 5(7): e11738. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0011738
    - Li S, Hong M, Tan HY, Wang N, Feng Y (2017). Insights into the role and interdependence of oxidative stress and inflammation in liver diseases. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2018;2018:1962591. doi:10.1155/2018/1962591
    - Ohtsu K, Tsukada S, Murakami Y, et al. (2017) p38γ MAPK–mediated regulation of actin polymerization and chemotaxis in neutrophils from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. J Immunol. 199:356-363. doi:10.4049/jimmunol.1601971

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**