---
title: "DGCR14"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene DGCR14 Information"
tags: ['DGCR14', '22q11.2deletionsyndrome', 'RNAprocessing', 'genetics', 'microdeletion', 'DiGeorgesyndrome', 'treatment', 'prognosis']
---

## Gene DGCR14 Information

### Genetic Position
DGCR14 gene is located on the human chromosome 22q11.21.

### Pathology
The DGCR14 gene is associated with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, also called DiGeorge syndrome. The syndrome results from a microdeletion on the long arm of chromosome 22. Individuals with this syndrome can exhibit various symptoms, including developmental delays, cardiovascular issues, immunodeficiency, and behavioral disorders.

### Function
The DGCR14 gene encodes for a protein that is involved in the processing of RNA molecules.

### External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 100628564
- Genomic location: NC_000022.11 (18452041..18453062)
- Aliases: DGCR15, DGCR16, DGS-2, DGS2, ES-22

### External Sites
- HGNC: HGNC:29415
- NCBI Entrez: 100628564
- Ensembl: ENSG00000282636
- OMIM: 602533
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y2L3

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There is no available AA mutation list or dbSNP ID for DGCR14 gene.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no available information about somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID for DGCR14 gene.

### Related Disease
The DGCR14 gene is associated with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, and treatment is focused on managing symptoms. Prognosis can be highly variable and dependent on the specific symptoms and severity of the syndrome.

### Drug Response
There is no known drug response information related to DGCR14 gene.

### Related Papers
- Subject: “Investigation of DGCR14 as a candidate gene for susceptibility to schizophrenia” 
  - Author: J. M. St Clair et al.
  - DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-5618.2007.00477.x
- Subject: “The schizophrenia susceptibility gene DGCR14 regulates synapse function and innate behavior in mice” 
  - Author: T. Artemenko et al.
  - DOI: 10.1038/s41386-019-0326-z

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**