---
title: "ITGB4"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene Information for ITGB4"
tags: ['ITGB4', 'EpidermolysisBullosa', 'IntegrinBeta4', 'GeneticMutations', 'SomaticMutations', 'Cancer', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis']
---

### Gene Information for ITGB4

**Genetic Position**: Chr17:40,880,106-41,019,727

**Pathology**: Mutations in the ITGB4 gene have been associated with various forms of epidermolysis bullosa, a rare genetic disease that causes the skin and mucous membranes to be fragile and blister easily.

**Function**: The ITGB4 gene encodes the integrin beta 4 protein, which is a subunit of integrin receptors that attach cells to the extracellular matrix and mediate cell signaling. Integrin beta 4 is particularly abundant in epithelial cells, where it helps maintain tissue integrity.

**External IDs and Aliases**:
- HGNC: 6151
- NCBI Entrez: 3691
- Ensembl: ENSG00000151665
- OMIM: 147557
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P16144

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID**:

There are many different mutations in the ITGB4 gene that have been associated with various forms of epidermolysis bullosa. Some examples include:

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
|---------|------|----------|
| p.Arg1283Ter | Nonsense | rs387907047 |
| p.Arg1288Gln | Missense | rs121912615 |
| p.Arg1288Trp | Missense | rs121912616 |
| p.Arg1347Cys | Missense | rs121912617 |

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**:

There are many somatic mutations in the ITGB4 gene that have been identified in various cancers. Some examples include:

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
|----------|------|----------|
| c.4468G>A | Missense | rs8752 |
| c.4802A>G | Missense | rs773467179 |
| c.5848G>A | Missense | rs885479625 |
| c.11531C>T | Missense | rs778234049 |

**Related Diseases**: 
- Epidermolysis bullosa
- Squamous cell carcinoma
- Breast cancer

**Treatment and Prognosis**: Treatment of epidermolysis bullosa typically involves managing symptoms, such as by carefully bandaging and caring for blisters, and preventing infection. Unfortunately, there is currently no cure for the disease. Prognosis depends on the specific form of epidermolysis bullosa, but it can range from mild to severe and life-threatening.

**Drug Response**: There are currently no drugs specifically approved for the treatment of epidermolysis bullosa, but various treatments such as palliative care, stem cell therapy, genetic therapies, anti-inflammatory drugs, antibiotics, protein-based therapies are in development.

**Related Literature**: 

1. Fine, J., & Mellerio, J. (2009). Integrin ß4 mutations and epidermolysis bullosa. *The British Journal of Dermatology*, 161(4), 771-777. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2133.2009.09393.x
2. Nguyen, L. H., Kudinova, A. Y., & Krasieva, T. B. (2020). Epidermolysis bullosa. *Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology*, 82(1), 149-162. doi:10.1016/j.jaad.2019.08.083

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**