---
title: "PRPF8"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene PRPF8"
tags: ['PRPF8', 'Splicing', 'RetinitisPigmentosa', 'MissenseMutation', 'SomaticMutations', 'GeneTherapy', 'VisualImpairment', 'GeneticDisease']
---

## Gene PRPF8

### Genetic Position and Genomic Information
- Gene ID: 10594
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 17q25.3
- External IDs: HGNC: 29248, NCBI Entrez: 10594, Ensembl: ENSG00000173110, OMIM: 607300, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P22087
- Aliases: PRPF8, PRP8, FAL2, RP13, hPrp8

### Function
- The PRPF8 gene is involved in the splicing process of pre-messenger RNA. It encodes a protein called pre-mRNA-processing factor 8, which is a core component of the spliceosome complex. [1]

### Mutation Information
- AA Mutation List: The PRPF8 gene contains various amino acid mutations. Some of the most common mutations are:
     - Y2153C
     - S2236G
     - S2270G
- Mutation Type: Missense mutation
- dbSNP ID: rs114618322, rs746730853, rs115622198

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
- PRPF8 gene also shows somatic mutations in various cancer types such as colon and breast carcinoma.
- dbSNP ID: rs114618322, rs746730853, rs115622198

### Related Diseases
- Retinitis pigmentosa (RP), also known as rod-cone dystrophy, is a group of genetic diseases that cause gradual vision loss, and in some cases, blindness. The PRPF8 gene is one of the many genes that are associated with RP. [2]

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no definitive cure for RP. Several treatments, including gene therapies, are under investigation, but their commercial availability is yet to be determined.
- The severity of RP varies widely among individuals, and patients experience different degrees of visual impairment, depending upon the underlying mutation, patient age, and other environmental factors. [3]

### Drug Response
- No specific drugs are currently available that target the PRPF8 gene.

 ### References
 1. PRPF8 Gene - Genetics Home Reference - NIH. [Click](https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/PRPF8#location)
 2. RPGR gene - Genetics Home Reference - NIH. [Click](https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/PRPF8#conditions)
 3. Retinitis pigmentosa - Genetics Home Reference - NIH. [Click](https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/retinitis-pigmentosa)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**