---
title: "ACTA1"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene ACTA1"
tags: ['ACTA1', 'SkeletalMuscle', 'Myopathy', 'GeneticMutation', 'RespiratoryDistress', 'TreatmentManagement', 'DrugResponse', 'GenotypePhenotypeCorrelation']
---

# Information about gene ACTA1

## Genetic Position

**ACTA1** is a gene located on chromosome 1 at position p35.1. It spans around 18.5 kilobases and is transcribed into a protein-coding mRNA.

## Pathology

Mutations in the ACTA1 gene can cause disorders related to skeletal muscle function, such as congenital myopathy, nemaline myopathy, and intranuclear rod myopathy. These conditions can lead to symptoms like muscle weakness, hypotonia, and respiratory distress.

## Function

The ACTA1 gene encodes the alpha-skeletal muscle actin protein which is an important component of the sarcomeres, the basic contractile units of skeletal muscles. The protein is involved in muscle contraction and tension generation.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 130
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 59
- Ensembl: ENSG00000121852
- OMIM: 102610
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P68133

Aliases: ACT, CFTD, NEM3

## Mutation and Polymorphism

### AA Mutation List with dbSNP ID

- S37R, rs121917769
- R89H, rs121917771
- D154Y, rs121917772
- R257H, rs121917774
- G305E, rs121917776
- K336del, rs121917777

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are several somatic SNVs/InDels in the ACTA1 gene. Some of them are:

- c.444G>A (p.Arg148Gln), rs118192743
- c.944C>T (p.Arg315Trp), rs267607042
- c.1150C>T (p.Thr384Ile), rs143447732
- c.1166G>T (p.Gly389Cys), rs569544038

## Related Disease

Mutations in ACTA1 are associated with various muscle diseases:

- Intranuclear rod myopathy (INM)
- Nemaline myopathy 3 (NEM3)
- Myopathy, congenital, with fiber- type disproportion (CFTD)
- Myopathy, congenital, with nemaline rods and cap structures (CNMNC)

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no known cure for ACTA1-related disorders. Management of symptoms is the primary treatment approach, including physical therapy, respiratory support, and orthopedic interventions.

## Drug Response

There is limited information available on the drug response to ACTA1-related disorders. Currently, there are no specific drugs available to treat these conditions.

## Related Papers

- Author: Shaffer, T. H. et al.
DOI: 10.1016/j.pupt.2017.05.008
Title: Respiratory mechanics in ACTA1-related multi-minicore disease with rigid spine syndrome
- Author: Sparrow, J. C. et al.
DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2016.07.006
Title: Muscle disease-causing ACTA1 mutations exhibit a spectrum of effects on thin filament assembly and regulation
- Author: Wallgren-Pettersson, C. et al.
DOI: 10.1016/j.nmd.2015.11.001
Title: Genotype-phenotype correlations in nemaline myopathy caused by mutations in the genes for nebulin and skeletal muscle alpha-actin

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**