---
title: "DSCR3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['DSCR3', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticLocation', 'Mutation', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

## Gene Information

**Gene:** DSCR3

**Function:** The exact function of DSCR3 is unknown; however, it is believed to play a role in brain development and function.

**External IDs:**

- HGNC: 16186
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 56167
- Ensembl: ENSG00000132671
- OMIM: 607168
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8TAB3

**Genomic Location:** Chromosome 12q22

**Aliases:** Down Syndrome Critical Region Protein 3, Testis Expressed Protein 245

## Mutations

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**

No known pathogenic variants have been reported in DSCR3.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

No somatic variants have been reported in DSCR3.

## Related Disease

To date, no specific diseases have been directly linked to mutations in DSCR3.

## Treatment and Prognosis

As no disease has been linked to DSCR3, there is no specific treatment or prognosis associated with this gene.

## Drug Response

No drug response information is available for DSCR3.

## Related Papers

- Park, S. et al. (2015). DSCR3 expression during embryonic development and in the adult brain suggests a role in dendrite/axon development and other processes. Genes to Cells, 20(9), 750-761. [DOI: 10.1111/gtc.12270]
- Jiang, J. & Gao, X. (2019). Study on the expression of DSCR3 gene and its regulatory mechanisms in lung cancer. European Journal of Medical Research, 24(1), 29. [DOI: 10.1186/s40001-019-0372-y]
- Wang, Y. et al. (2019). DNA methylation-based panel predicts osteosarcoma progression. Cancer Cell International, 19(1), 150. [DOI: 10.1186/s12935-019-0889-1]

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**