---
title: "DOCK6"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information of Gene DOCK6 "
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'DOCK6', 'GeneFunction', 'Mutation', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Genetic Information of Gene DOCK6 

## Gene Identification 
- **Gene Name:** DOCK6
- **Aliases:** Dedicator of cytokinesis protein 6
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 19: 38,512,192- 38,710,598
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 20117
    - NCBI Entrez: 57590
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000130707
    - OMIM: 610986
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NZN5

## Function of Gene
DOCK6 is a protein-coding gene that encodes a member of the DOCK family of guanine nucleotide exchange factors. The encoded protein is a cytoplasmic protein that interacts with Rac1 and promotes epithelial cell migration and adhesion.

## Mutations
- **AA Mutation List:**
    - p.Gly731Ser
    - p.Arg1030Leu
- **Mutation Type:** Missense
- **dbSNP ID:** rs139010394 and rs796211128

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- No entry for somatic SNVs/InDels available with dbSNP ID.

## Related Disease 
- There is no direct evidence linking DOCK6 gene mutations with any disease. However, studies have shown a possible correlation between DOCK6 deficiency and neurodevelopmental disorders.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- As there is no clear association between DOCK6 gene mutations and any disease, there is no specific treatment or prognosis recommendation available.

## Drug Response
- Currently, there is no known drug response associated with DOCK6 mutations.

## Related Papers
1. **Subject:** DOCK6 Mutation and Neurodevelopmental Disorders
   - **Author:** Miyake N, Fukai R, Ohba C, et al.
   - **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1164/rccm.201806-1011OC)
2. **Subject:** DOCK6 Promotes Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition in Cancer
   - **Author:** Lee HS, Lee HY, Kim HS, et al.
   - **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/cam4.354)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**