---
title: "AIFM1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene AIFM1"
tags: ['GeneAIFM1', 'MitochondrialDysfunction', 'Apoptosis', 'NeurodegenerativeDiseases', 'CowchockSyndrome', 'AlpersHuttenlocherSyndrome', 'CombinedOxidativePhosphorylationDeficiency', 'SupportiveCare']
---

# Gene AIFM1

## Genetic Position
The AIFM1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome X at the position Xq26.1.

## Pathology and Function
The AIFM1 gene encodes for the apoptosis-inducing factor 1 (AIFM1) protein. AIFM1 is a flavoprotein that localizes to the mitochondrial intermembrane space and plays a role in programmed cell death or apoptosis. AIFM1 is essential for the maintenance of oxidative phosphorylation and ATP production in the mitochondria.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 353
- NCBI Entrez: 9131
- Ensembl: ENSG00000147133
- OMIM: 300169
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O95831

Aliases: PDCD8, PDCD8BP

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.109C>T (p.Arg37Trp) - rs45590997
- c.771C>T (p.Arg257Cys) - rs281865498
- c.961G>A (p.Ala321Thr) - rs755879781
- c.1055T>G (p.Leu352Arg) - rs814079346

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for AIFM1 gene in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
AIFM1 mutations have been associated with a number of diseases, including the following:
- Cowchock syndrome (CMT2L)
- Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome
- Combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency

## Treatment and Prognosis
Management of diseases due to mutations in the AIFM1 gene is mainly supportive. There is no known cure for these conditions.

## Drug Response
There is no known targeted drug therapy for the diseases associated with mutations in the AIFM1 gene.

## Related papers
- Subject: Whole exome sequencing identifies AIFM1 mutations as a cause of lethal neonatal mitochondrial encephalopathy
- Author: Almannai, M. et al.
- DOI: 10.1038/s41436-018-0079-6

- Subject: Pathogenic AIFM1 mutations induce mitochondrial dysfunction and defective cholesterol trafficking
- Author: Liu, S. et al.
- DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddz027

- Subject: A novel mutation in the apoptosis-inducing factor (AIFM1) gene is associated with autosomal dominant sensory ataxia
- Author: Gdynia, H.J. et al.
- DOI: 10.1007/s00415-011-6241-3

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**