---
title: "KAL1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene KAL1"
tags: ['KAL1', 'KallmannSyndrome', 'Anosmin1', 'HormoneReplacementTherapy', 'GnRH', 'Hypogonadism', 'GeneticDisorder', 'Puberty']
---

# Gene KAL1

### Genetic Position:
KAL1 (Kallmann syndrome 1) gene is located on the X chromosome. The genomic location of the gene is Xp22.3. 

### Pathology:
Mutations in the KAL1 gene are associated with Kallmann syndrome, a genetic disorder characterized by the absence or impaired sense of smell (anosmia or hyposmia), and failure to start or fully complete puberty in males and females. 

### Function:
The KAL1 gene encodes a protein called anosmin-1, which is involved in the formation of olfactory nerves and neurons that control reproductive development. Anosmin-1 plays a role in promoting the migration of olfactory axons and gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)-secreting neurons during embryonic development.

### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 6207
- NCBI Entrez: 3730
- Ensembl: ENSG00000102154
- OMIM: 300835
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P23352
- Aliases: ANOS1, KAL, KALIG-1, WBP10, KALLS

### AA Mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
The KAL1 gene has various mutations, including missense, nonsense, frameshift, deletions, and splice-site mutations. dbSNP is a database of human polymorphisms and disease mutations. Here are some examples of mutations in the KAL1 gene with their dbSNP IDs and mutation types:

- c.1631G>A (p.Arg544His) rs121918012 - Missense
- c.833C>T (p.Arg278Ter) rs121918011 - Nonsense
- c.1312dupT (p.Leu438PhefsTer2) rs1057519366 - Frameshift
- c.239G>T (p.Gly80Val) rs104894221 - Missense

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There are currently no reported somatic mutations in the KAL1 gene.

### Related Disease:
Mutations in the KAL1 gene cause Kallmann syndrome, an inherited disorder that affects development of the hypothalamus and pituitary gland, which control the production of hormones that regulate growth, puberty, and other essential bodily functions.

### Treatment and Prognosis:
Currently, there is no cure for Kallmann syndrome, but hormone replacement therapy can help to stimulate puberty and development of secondary sexual characteristics.

### Drug Response:
Treatment with gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) can help individuals with Kallmann syndrome to develop secondary sexual characteristics. Some studies have also shown that testosterone replacement therapy may be effective in treating hypogonadism in males with Kallmann syndrome. 

### Related Papers:
- Subject: Mutations in the KAL1 Gene and the X Chromosome – Linking Neural Migration, Olfaction, and Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism
- Author: Catherine Dodé
- DOI:  [Click](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pgen.1001114)

- Subject: Kallmann syndrome: genetics and hormonal function
- Author: Philippe F. Backeljauw
- DOI:  [Click](https://doi.org/10.4161/cc.9.22.13514)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**