---
title: "BCL2"
date: 2023-04-19 00:00:00
summary: "# Information about gene BCL2"
tags: ['BCL2', 'Apoptosis', 'Cancer', 'TargetedTherapy', 'Venetoclax', 'AutoimmuneDisease', 'ViralInfections', 'Mutation']
---

# Information about gene BCL2

## Genetic Position

BCL2 is a gene located on the long arm of chromosome 18 at position 21.33 (18q21.33). 

## Pathology
BCL2 has been implicated in various pathologies including the development of cancer, autoimmune disease, and viral infections. In particular, it has been found to be overexpressed or mutated in several types of cancer, including lymphoma and leukemia.

## Function 

BCL2 encodes for a protein known as B-cell lymphoma 2, which plays a crucial role in regulating programmed cell death (apoptosis) by inhibiting the activity of pro-apoptotic proteins. The protein is involved in promoting the survival of various cell types, including lymphocytes, and is crucial for the maintenance of tissue homeostasis.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 990
- NCBI Entrez: 596
- Ensembl: ENSG00000171791
- OMIM: 151430
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P10415

Some aliases for this gene include:
- Bcl-2 
- B-cell CLL/lymphoma 2 

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
| -------- | ---- | -------- |
|V34I | Missense | rs1801018 |
|M15V | Missense | rs57066371 |
|E40K | Missense | rs121913483 |
|E17K | Missense | rs34324330 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
| -------- | ---- | -------- |
| G48E | Missense | rs55737207 |
| T69I | Missense | rs139188786 |
| W145G | Missense | rs587778354 |
| S70fs | Frameshift | rs587777939 |

## Related Diseases

Alterations in the BCL2 gene have been associated with several diseases including:
- Cancer (especially lymphoma and leukemia)
- Autoimmune disease 
- Viral infections

## Treatment and Prognosis

BCL2 inhibitors, such as venetoclax, have been developed as a targeted therapy for various types of cancer. The prognosis for patients with BCL2-associated cancers can vary depending on the type and stage of the cancer.

## Drug Response

BCL2 inhibitors like venetoclax have shown promising results in the treatment of various types of cancer. However, patient response can vary and further research is needed to determine factors that influence drug response.

## Related papers

- Author: Tsujimoto Y, Cossman J, Jaffe E, Croce CM
  - Title: Involvement of the bcl-2 gene in human follicular lymphoma
  - DOI: 10.1126/science.1312250
- Author: Tse C, Shoemaker AR, Adickes J, Anderson MG, Chen J, Jin S, Johnson EF, Marsh KC, Mitten MJ, Nimmer PM, Roberts L, Tahir SK, Xiao Y, Yang X, Zhang H, Fesik S, Rosenberg SH, Elmore SW
  - Title: ABT-263: a potent and orally bioavailable Bcl-2 family inhibitor
  - DOI: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-07-0324

#BCL2 #Apoptosis #Cancer #TargetedTherapy #Venetoclax #AutoimmuneDisease #ViralInfections #Mutation