---
title: "GJA8"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['GJA8', 'Connexin50', 'CongenitalCataracts', 'SomaticMutations', 'GapJunctionProtein', 'VisualAcuity', 'SurgicalRemoval', 'CellularCommunication']
---

## Gene Information
The gene GJA8 encodes a gap junction protein called connexin-50. This protein is a transmembrane channel that forms gap junctions between surrounding cells, allowing the exchange of ions and small molecules essential for cellular communication and homeostasis.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 4234
- NCBI Entrez: 2703
- Ensembl: ENSG00000140464
- OMIM: 600897
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P48165
- Alias: CX50, MP70

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type
Several missense mutations in GJA8 have been identified to cause congenital cataracts, which affects lens development and transparency. the mutations include:
- R23Q, R23W, R23P, R23G, R23L, R23C, R23H, R23S, R23T
- G22R, G22E
- E48K
- L45P
- L7P

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
There are several somatic mutations in GJA8 identified in cancers such as breast cancer, glioblastoma, and head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. These mutations include:
- c.263T>C, p.V88A (dbSNP: rs376864218)
- c.240C>T, p.R80W (dbSNP: rs58453566)

## Related Disease
The mutations in GJA8 have been associated with congenital nuclear and zonular pulverulent cataracts, which presents with cloudy or opaque lens during infancy or childhood.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, cataracts caused by GJA8 mutations can only be treated by surgical removal of the affected lens and artificial replacement. The prognosis is generally good, with most individuals achieving good visual acuity after surgery.

## Drug Response
Currently, there is no specific drug to target GJA8 mutations. However, postoperative care usually involves antibiotic and anti-inflammatory eye drops to prevent infection and reduce inflammation.

## Related Papers
- Li et al. (2020). MMP14 regulates cell motility and invasiveness through connexin 43 and connexin 50 in human nasopharyngeal carcinoma. [DOI: 10.1186/s12885-020-07537-7]
- Wang et al. (2019). Investigation of connexin 50 mutations in Chinese patients with cataracts. [DOI: 10.1167/iovs.19-26932]
- Hansen et al. (2003). A novel GJA8 mutation in an Iranian family with progressive autosomal dominant congenital nuclear cataract. [DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-0004.2003.610620.x]

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**