---
title: "CSDE1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# CSDE1 Gene Information"
tags: ['CSDE1', 'RNAbindingprotein', 'diseaseassociation', 'somaticmutations', 'therapeutictargets', 'geneticinformation', 'drugresponse', 'researchpaper']
---

# CSDE1 Gene Information

## Genetic Position
The CSDE1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 (1q21.3).

## Pathology and Function
The CSDE1 gene encodes a highly conserved multifunctional RNA-binding protein, Cold Shock Domain-containing E1. This protein is involved in various cellular processes such as transcriptional and translational regulation, mRNA stabilization, and RNA splicing. The dysregulation of CSDE1 has been associated with various diseases, including cancer, autism, and atherosclerosis.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC:1778
- NCBI Entrez: 8837
- Ensembl: ENSG00000161377
- OMIM: 601011
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q14103

Aliases:
- UNR
- CSDA2
- UPF1IP
- MGC111009

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Some of the reported amino acid substitutions and corresponding dbSNP IDs are:
- L18P (rs62038105)
- R170C (rs1057519129)
- Y331C (rs770164690)
- R234W (rs1057519128)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are various somatic mutations identified in the CSDE1 gene, including SNVs and InDels, and their corresponding dbSNP IDs. 

## Related Disease
CSDE1 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various diseases such as cancer, autism spectrum disorder, and colorectal cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for diseases associated with CSDE1 dysfunction. However, understanding its role in various cellular processes can help identify potential therapeutic targets.

## Drug Response
There is limited information on the drug response associated with CSDE1.

### References
- Subject: Cold shock domain protein E1 suppresses the malignancy of clear cell renal cell carcinoma through stabilization of Fas mRNA
- Author: F Liu, C Zhang, N Zhang, J Guo, S Li, S Lu, Y Lu, J Li, J Xu
- DOI link: 10.1016/j.taap.2020.105161

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**