---
title: "CBLB"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene CBLB"
tags: ['CBLB', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'ImmuneResponse', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'SomaticMutations', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis', 'Biomarker']
---

# Information about gene CBLB

## Genetic Position
CBLB gene is located on chromosome 3p22.2 spanning 36,728,309-36,829,571.

## Pathology and Function
CBLB belongs to the family of E3 ubiquitin-protein ligases. It negatively regulates immune responses thereby prevents autoimmunity and immunopathology. Loss of function mutations in CBLB have been associated with autoimmune diseases and immune dysregulation.

## Gene Information
- **Function:** E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase that negatively regulates immune response.
- **Aliases:** E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase CBL-B, Casitas B-cell lymphoma proto-oncogene B, RNF56, and B-cbl-2.
- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 1505
    - NCBI Entrez Gene: 23624
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000163932
    - OMIM: 601237
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13191
    
## Variation information
- **AA Mutation List:** Numerous mutations have been reported in the CBLB gene. Some of the mutations include Q132L, S349N, W802G etc.
- **Mutation Type:** Missense mutations
- **dbSNP IDs of AA mutation:** rs199702582, rs886041957, rs886041957 etc.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:** Several somatic mutations have been reported in CBLB gene. Some of the reported SNVs/InDels include c.2T>A, c.232T>C, c.26A>G etc.
- **dbSNP IDs of somatic SNVs/InDels:** rs1565403837, rs1360401776, rs540236530 etc.

## Related Disease
CBLB mutations are associated with various autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and others.

## Treatment and Prognosis
CBLB is a potential therapeutic target for autoimmune diseases treatment. Targeting CBLB could boost immune responses and enhance the efficiency of immune checkpoint blockade in some tumors.

## Drug Response
Several drugs such as quercetin, 3',4'-dihydroxyflavonol, and Dasatinib have been reported to inhibit CBLB.

## Notes
- CBLB is a crucial regulator of immune response.
- CBLB mutations are associated with several autoimmune diseases.
- Targeting CBLB could be a potential therapeutic strategy for autoimmune diseases treatment.

## References
- Park YJ, et al. (2019). Cbl-b regulates the response to PD-1 inhibition and serves as a predictive biomarker of response to PD-1 blockade in glioma. Cancer research, 79(20), 5204-5214. DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-18-3695
- Wang Y, et al. (2015). Cbl-b enhances sensitivity to programmed cell death induced by cytokine withdrawal through ubiquitin-mediated degradation of Bcl-2. Nature communications, 6(1), 1-10. DOI: 10.1038/ncomms7945
- Li F, et al. (2018). Cbl-b deficiency mediates pristane-induced lupus-like disease by increasing the accumulation of myeloid-derived suppressor cells. Frontiers in immunology, 9, 188. DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00188

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**