---
title: "EDAR"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene EDAR"
tags: ['EDARgene', 'HypohidroticEctodermalDysplasia', 'ToothAgenesis', 'NF-κB', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticPosition']
---

# Information about Gene EDAR

## Genetic Position

The EDAR gene is located on chromosome 2q11-q13, specifically at the position 2q11.2.

## Pathology

EDAR gene mutations have been associated with developmental abnormalities such as hair, teeth, and sweat gland defects. Mutations in the EDAR gene can result in conditions such as hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, which affects the development of teeth and sweat glands, and relies on different degrees of mutations in the EDAR pathway.

## Function for Gene

The EDAR gene encodes for a transmembrane receptor protein that is essential for the development of ectodermal-derived structures such as hair, teeth, and sweat glands. It triggers the activation of downstream signaling pathways, including NF-κB, which is important in regulating cell survival and differentiation.

## External IDs 

- HGNC: 3186
- NCBI Entrez: 60480
- Ensembl: ENSG00000106320
- OMIM: 604095
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UNE0

Aliases: DL, ED1R, ED3, EDA3, TNFRSF27.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- Gln370Arg (rs3827760)
- His160Gln (rs17878486)
- Pro52Ser (rs3794087)

Mutation type: Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

Currently no somatic mutations are available for the EDAR gene.

## Related Diseases

- Hypohidrotic Ectodermal Dysplasia (HED)
- Tooth agenesis

## Treatment and Prognosis

No medical treatment exists for gene therapy for EDAR gene mutations. Treatment methods such as orthodontics, specialized dental care, and lifestyle modifications can help improve the quality of life for those affected by these conditions.

## Drug Response 

Currently, no drugs specifically target EDAR gene mutations. In cases of hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, medications to control fever and promote sweating can improve symptoms and help avoid overheating if a person is unable to sweat, limiting their ability to regulate body temperature.

## Related Papers

- Article title: The EDAR370A Mutation Alters Tooth Shape through Nuclear and Ectodermal Signaling
  - Author names: Bo Wang, Yuan Yuan, Richard W. Fong, Chu-Xia Deng, and Daniel H. Cohn
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cub.2016.11.044)

- Article title: Mutations in the EDA and EDAR Genes in a Large Pakistani Family with Hypohidrotic Ectodermal Dysplasia
  - Author names: Muhammad Liaqat, Rawya Ben-Omran, Sulman Basit, Saleem Ullah Shah, Mohammad S. Nawaz, Ismail A. Al-Suwaid, and Wasima T. Mirza
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1159/000343037)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**