---
title: "TBK1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: TBK1"
tags: ['TBK1', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'ALS', 'FTD', 'HSP', 'MS', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'CancerTherapy']
---

# Gene: TBK1

**Genetic position:**
TBK1 gene is located on chromosome 12q14.1.

**Pathology:**
Mutations in TBK1 gene have been associated with various neurological disorders, such as Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD). 

**Function:**
TBK1 gene encodes for a serine/threonine kinase protein that plays a crucial role in cellular processes like regulation of immune response and autophagy. It is involved in the activation of the c-Rel transcription factor and NF-kappa B signaling pathway.

**External IDs:**
   - HGNC: 11523
   - NCBI Entrez: 29110
   - Ensembl: ENSG00000183087
   - OMIM: 604834
   - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UHD2

**Aliases:** 
   - NAK
   - T2K

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
   - p.Glu643AlafsTer21 (Frameshift, rs1556465658)
   - p.Thr96Met (Missense, rs397514688)
   - p.Arg357Ter (Nonsense, rs779869786)
   - p.Pro388Leu (Missense, rs114658821)
   - p.Ile334Val (Missense, rs780757335)

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
   - rs147625783 (C > T)
   - rs200762267 (G > A)
   - rs147625782 (C > T)
      
**Related diseases:**
TBK1 mutations have been linked to various neurological disorders, including:
   - Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS)
   - Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD)
   - Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia (HSP)
   - Multiple Sclerosis (MS)
   - Parkinson's disease.

**Treatment and prognosis:**
Currently, there is no cure for the diseases caused by TBK1 gene mutations. Treatment mainly focuses on managing the symptoms and slowing down the progression of the disease. Patients with ALS and FTD have a poor prognosis.

**Drug response:**
Studies have shown that inhibition of TBK1 gene expression may have a therapeutic effect on certain types of cancer. TBK1 inhibitors are being developed as potential anticancer agents.

**Related papers:**

- Author: Kishore Kumar, Dhiraj Kumar, et al.
  DOI: 10.1007/s13238-019-0617-1
  Title: TBK1: a new potential therapeutic target for cancer treatment.
  
- Author: Kevin C. O'Connor, Derek W. Brown
  DOI: 10.1002/path.4989
  Title: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: current perspectives from basic research to the clinic.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**