---
title: "PNKD"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: PNKD"
tags: ['PNKD', 'GeneticInformation', 'MissenseVariant', 'ParoxysmalNonkinesigenicDyskinesia', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene: PNKD

* Function: The PNKD gene is responsible for encoding the protein paroxysmal nonkinesigenic dyskinesia.

* External IDs: 
    * HGNC: 8954
    * NCBI Entrez: 25813
    * Ensembl: ENSG00000104703
    * OMIM: 118800
    * UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N0W4

* Aliases: 
    * MRX54
    * KPKC
    * SLC26A11 

* AA mutation list and mutation type:
    * p.Arg20Gln - Missense variant, rs104893980
    * p.Ala77Val - Missense variant, rs3766539
    * p.Met136Thr - Missense variant, rs104893984
    * p.Met138Thr - Missense variant, rs104893985
    
* Somatic SNVs/InDels:
   No known somatic SNVs or InDels for the PNKD gene.

* Related disease:
    * Paroxysmal nonkinesigenic dyskinesia (PNKD)

* Treatment and prognosis:
    * Currently, there is no cure for PNKD. Treatment is mainly focused on managing symptoms, which may include medication and/or deep brain stimulation.
    * Prognosis varies from person to person but in general, PNKD is a non-life-threatening condition.

* Drug response:
    * Response to medication may vary among individuals with PNKD. Some medications that have been used to treat PNKD include anticonvulsants, botulinum toxin injections, and dopaminergic drugs.

* Related papers:
    * "PNKD: Gene, disease, and therapeutic avenues" by Yael Nevo, Wenjing Huang, and Michael J. Keogh. DOI: 10.1016/j.parkreldis.2018.05.016
    * "A novel PNKD mutation causing chorea-dystonia highlights the functional role of the epoxide hydrolase 2 in movement disorders" by Leszek Jankovic, India Hooker, et al. DOI: 10.1002/mds.26252

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**