---
title: "LYST"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: LYST"
tags: ['LYST', 'ChediakHigashiSyndrome', 'HLH', 'ImmuneSystem', 'HematopoieticStemCellTransplantation', 'GeneFunction', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: LYST

## Information
- Gene Function: This gene encodes a protein that is involved in the regulation of lysosomal trafficking and morphology. It plays an important role in the immune system, specifically in the function of cytotoxic T cells and natural killer cells.
- External IDs: 
    - GeneID: 1130
    - Genomic Location: Chromosome 1q42.3
    - Aliases: CHS1, BEIGE, CEAS1, LYST-1, LYSTP1, NIBS, 
- External Sites: 
    - HGNC: 6708
    - NCBI Entrez: 1130
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000117676
    - OMIM: 606897
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q99697

## Mutations
- AA Mutation List:
    - p.Arg2118X (rs199714244) - stop gained
    - p.Thr2248Ala (rs749104648) - missense
- Mutation Type: 
    - rs199714244: SNV
    - rs749104648: SNV
- Somatic SNVs/InDels:
    - No data found

## Related Diseases
- Chediak-Higashi Syndrome (CHS)
- Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis (HLH)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the only curative treatment for CHS or HLH. Supportive care and treatment for infections or complications are also important.
- Prognosis depends on the severity of the disease and the response to treatment.

## Drug Response
- No drug specific to LYST gene mutations.

## References
- Mahlooji, N., & Forouzandeh, M. (2017). LYST: a potent gene related to Chediak-Higashi syndrome. Journal of cellular physiology, 232(11), 2963–2971. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/jcp.25772)
- Zhang, K., & Catalfamo, M. (2019). Lyst controls the biogenesis of cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Journal of clinical investigation, 129(3), 957–960. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1172/JCI125578)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**