---
title: "ESRRA"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ESRRA "
tags: ['GeneESRRA', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'BreastCancer', 'MetabolicDisorders', 'DrugResponse', 'TherapeuticTargets', 'MissenseMutation', 'SomaticVariants']
---

# Gene ESRRA 

## Genetic position and aliases
- Gene name: ESRRA (Estrogen Related Receptor Alpha)
- Chromosome: 11
- Location: 11q13.1
- External IDs: 
     - HGNC: 3464
     - NCBI Entrez: 2103
     - Ensembl: ENSG00000110576
     - OMIM: 601551
     - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P11474
- Aliases: ERR1, NR3B1

## Function of ESRRA gene
The ESRRA gene encodes for the Estrogen Related Receptor Alpha (ERRα) protein, which is a type of transcription factor that plays an important role in energy metabolism, mitochondrial biogenesis, and the regulation of oxidative phosphorylation. ERRα is also involved in the development and progression of various cancers, as its activity can affect tumor growth and apoptosis.

## Mutations and related diseases
- AA mutation list:
     - p.Asn338Ser (rs34746368)
     - p.Ala362Thr (rs35460167)
     - p.His393Tyr (rs2236175)
- Mutation type: missense
- related disease: 
     - Breast cancer: ERRα has been shown to play a key role in the development and progression of breast cancer, and mutations in the ESRRA gene have been associated with increased risk for the disease.
     - Metabolic disorders: ERRα plays a critical role in energy metabolism, and mutations in the ESRRA gene have been linked to increased risk for metabolic disorders, such as type 2 diabetes and obesity.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs and InDels in the ESRRA gene that have been reported in various cancers. Some of these variants include:
- rs533237700
- rs200541354
- rs76086171
- rs369178281

## Treatment and prognosis
The treatment and prognosis for ESRRA-related diseases varies depending on the specific condition. In breast cancer, for example, inhibitors of ERRα activity are being investigated as potential therapeutic agents. In metabolic disorders, lifestyle modifications, such as diet and exercise, are often recommended as the first line of treatment.

## Drug response
There is some evidence to suggest that certain drugs may affect the activity of ERRα and the ESRRA gene. For example, the diabetes drug metformin has been shown to inhibit ERRα and may have potential as a treatment for metabolic disorders. Other drugs, such as those that target ERRα directly, are also being studied for their potential therapeutic benefit.

## Related papers
- Author: Deblois, G., & Giguère, V.
  - Paper title: Oestrogen-related receptors in breast cancer: Ligands, pathways and therapeutic opportunities.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s10549-012-2113-y
- Author: Stein, R. A., & Chang, C. Y.
  - Paper title: Estrogen-related receptor alpha as a therapeutic target in cancer.
  - DOI: 10.3109/1061186X.2013.825236

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**