---
title: "CX3CR1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Name: CX3CR1"
tags: ['CX3CR1', 'ImmuneResponse', 'ChronicDiseases', 'AutoimmuneDisorders', 'Inflammation', 'TherapeuticTargets', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticVariants']
---

## Gene Name: CX3CR1

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 3
- Position: 3q21.3

### Pathology
CX3CR1 is associated with various chronic diseases such as atherosclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, and cancer.

### Function
CX3CR1 plays a crucial role in immune responses, inflammation, cellular adhesion, and survival. It is specifically expressed on the surface of immune cells such as T cells, monocytes, and natural killer cells.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 2561
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 1524
- Ensembl Gene: ENSG00000129537
- OMIM: 601470
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P49238
- Aliases: CMKDR1, GPR13, V28, CX3CRR1

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- V249I (rs3732379)
- T280M (rs3732378)
- G279R (rs3732377)
- I249M (rs3732376)
- S276G (rs3732375)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- In melanoma, a somatic SNV was found at position T280M (rs3732378).

### Related Disease
CX3CR1 is associated with the development and progression of chronic diseases such as atherosclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, and cancer. it has also been linked to autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There are currently no specific drugs that target CX3CR1. However, studies have suggested that modulating CX3CR1 receptor expression could provide potential therapeutic benefits in autoimmune disorders and inflammation-related diseases.

### Drug Response
Studies have shown that CX3CR1 antagonists can attenuate inflammation in several chronic diseases such as atherosclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, and cancer.

### Related Papers
- Subject: CX3CR1 in Alzheimer's disease
  - Author: Cho S, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/glia.20860

- Subject: Role of the CX3CR1 receptor in cancer progression
  - Author: Feng M, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-0667

- Subject: CX3CR1 in autoimmune disease
  - Author: Cardona AE, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.02.005

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**