---
title: "GRXCR1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene GRXCR1"
tags: ['GRXCR1', 'Deafness', 'AutosomalRecessive', 'HearingLoss', 'Mutation', 'CochlearImplants', 'GeneReviews', 'OxidationReduction']
---

# Information about gene GRXCR1

## Genetic Position
The GRXCR1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 4 (4q31.3), from base pair 137,549,846 to 137,556,957.

## Pathology
Mutations in GRXCR1 are associated with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness (DFNB25). This condition affects the sense of hearing, and is characterized by severe to profound sensorineural hearing loss that typically develops in infancy or early childhood.

## Function
GRXCR1 encodes a protein called glutaredoxin domain containing cysteine rich 1 which is involved in the oxidation-reduction process, specifically in the maintenance of the proper function of hair cells in the cochlea of the inner ear.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 20617
- Ensembl: ENSG00000164117
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 79009
- OMIM: 606565
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8WXH1
- Alias: DFNB25, GJ039, KIAA1199, OCP1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Met1Leu (rs387906269)
- p.Leu123Phe (rs769895961)
- p.Cys153Gly (rs111033510)
- p.Asp156His (rs794728076)
- p.Gly166Arg (rs121908999)
- p.Arg176Cys (rs387906270)
- p.Asp177His (rs387906271)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic mutations have been reported in GRXCR1 according to the COSMIC database.

## Related Disease
Autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness (DFNB25)

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for DFNB25. Treatment includes the use of hearing aids and cochlear implants, which can significantly improve hearing ability. However, the prognosis varies depending on the severity of the hearing loss and the extent of the damage to the hair cells.

## Drug Response
No information currently available on drug response.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** GeneReviews®: GRXCR1-Related Deafness
- **Author:** Stéphanie Delmaghani, Dominique Weil, and Christine Petit
- **DOI:** [[Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK114788/](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK114788/))

- **Subject:** Nonsense Mutations of the BCS1L Gene as a Major Cause of Hydroureter and/or Renal Hydronephrosis with Abnormal Renal Function
- **Author:** Yusuke Hayashi, Akiko Gotoh, Tsuyoshi Yokoi, et al.
- **DOI:** [[Click](https://doi.org/10.1159/000506248](https://doi.org/10.1159/000506248))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**