---
title: "JMJD1C"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene JMJD1C"
tags: ['JMJD1C', 'IntellectualDisability', 'HistoneDemethylase', 'XLinked', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene JMJD1C

### Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

- **Genetic Position:** JMJD1C gene is located on chromosome Xq23.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in this gene are associated with X-linked intellectual disability and impaired verbal and non-verbal communication skills.
- **Function:** This gene encodes for a histone demethylase enzyme that regulates the expression of genes involved in neural development, spermatogenesis, and X-chromosome inactivation. 

### Gene Information

- **External IDs:** Gene ID: 23176, OMIM ID: 300534.
- **Aliases:** JHDM1C, KDM3C, TDRD9.
- **External Sites:**
    - HGNC: 29777.
    - NCBI Entrez: 23176.
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000177355.
    - OMIM: 300534.
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y5P9.

### Mutations Information

- **AA Mutation List:** A list of missense mutations in JMJD1C can be found at UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot database.
- **Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:** Single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and small insertions/deletions (InDels) can be found at dbSNP database.
   - rs1378533186
   - rs1378533177
   - rs1378533180
   - rs1378533183
   - rs1378533184
   - rs150812432

### Disease Information

- **Related Disease:** Mutations in JMJD1C gene are associated with X-linked intellectual disability (XLID) in both males and females. 

### Treatment and Prognosis

- There is no cure for XLID caused by mutations in JMJD1C gene. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive. Early intervention with speech and language therapy, special education, and behavioral therapy can improve outcomes.
- The long-term prognosis for people with XLID due to JMJD1C mutations varies widely depending on the severity of intellectual disability and associated medical problems.

### Drug Response

- There is no specific drug currently available to target the underlying cause of XLID due to JMJD1C mutations. However, some medication can help manage the symptoms of the condition, such as attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), anxiety, and depression.

### Related Papers

- Mastronardi, F.G., et al. (2012). "Identification of a gene expression profile that discriminates indirect from direct effects of chromosome 21 nondisjunction on prenatal brain development." PLoS ONE 7(3): e32080. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0032080.
- Wang, J., et al. (2021). "Mutation screening of 19 known X-linked intellectual disability genes in Chinese families." Human Genomics 15: 35. doi: 10.1186/s40246-021-00338-3.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**