---
title: "SEC23A"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SEC23A"
tags: ['GeneSEC23A', 'COPII', 'VesicleTransport', 'CranioLenticuloSuturalDysplasia', 'CongenitalDyserythropoieticAnemia', 'AnemiaTreatment', 'GeneticDisorders', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene SEC23A

## Information
- **Gene:** SEC23A
- **Genetic position:** Chromosome 20q13.2
- **Aliases:** Sec23 homolog A, SEC23, SEC23L, MGC138294
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 10589
    - NCBI Entrez: 10484
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000124145
    - OMIM: 601924
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q15437

## Function
SEC23A is a component of the coat protein complex II (COPII) that is responsible for the formation of vesicles for protein transport from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the Golgi apparatus. SEC23A specifically selects and captures cargo molecules that will be transported in the vesicles.

## Mutations
- **AA mutation list:** There are various mutations reported in SEC23A, including missense, nonsense, frameshift, and splice site mutations.
- **Mutation type:** Germline and somatic mutations have been reported.
- **dbSNP ID:** rs112882239, rs147260638, rs137853050, rs387907219, rs1555727826, rs531080933, rs375405536
 
## Related Diseases
Mutations in SEC23A can lead to various genetic disorders such as:

- Cranio-lenticulo-sutural dysplasia: This is a rare genetic disorder that affects the development of bones, lenses in the eyes, and connective tissues.
- Congenital dyserythropoietic anemia: This is a rare genetic disorder characterized by abnormal development of red blood cells.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment for mutations in SEC23A. Management of symptoms is usually the main focus. Prognosis varies depending on the specific disorder and severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is no specific drug targeted against SEC23A. However, treatment with erythropoietin and iron chelation therapy may be beneficial in managing anemia.

## References
- Raote, Ishan, et al. "Structure and function of the Sec23/24 winged helix domain-binding interface implication for the evolutionary origin of vesicle coating." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (2020): 201919729.
- Schindler, Anne, et al. "SEC23A loss-of-function variant and impaired endoplasmic reticulum export of collagens is associated with congenital dyserythropoietic anemia." Haematologica (2020). DOI: 10.3324/haematol.2019.242602.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**