---
title: "TCEB3C"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['TCEB3C', 'TranscriptionElongation', 'SIIIElongationFactor', 'SomaticVariants', 'RNApolymeraseII', 'NonCodingRNAs', 'GeneticInformation', 'GeneFunction']
---

## Gene Information

- Gene Name: TCEB3C (Transcription Elongation Factor B Polypeptide 3C)
- Location: Chromosome 19p13.3
- Aliases: SIII, elongin A3, RBX2
- External IDs: HGNC:11795, NCBI Entrez Gene: 79740, Ensembl: ENSG00000160190, OMIM: 610885, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BYV2

## Function

The TCEB3C gene is involved in transcription elongation, which is the process of synthesizing an RNA molecule from a DNA template strand. TCEB3C encodes a component of the SIII elongation factor complex that is involved in recruiting RNA polymerase II and stimulating transcription elongation. 

## Mutations

### AA Mutation List

There are currently no known pathogenic mutations specifically in TCEB3C.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels

There are various known somatic variants in TCEB3C with their corresponding dbSNP IDs. Some of them are:

- rs371860423
- rs190084780
- rs79122564

## Related Disease

Currently, there are no directly related diseases associated with mutations in TCEB3C.

## Treatment and Prognosis

As there are no related diseases associated with mutations in TCEB3C, there are no specific treatments or prognoses available for such mutations.

## Drug Response

Currently, there is no data available on drug response related to TCEB3C mutations.

## Papers

- Subject: Elongin SIII-dependent RNA polymerase II elongation factor
- Author: T. Kimura et al.
- DOI: 10.1093/nar/28.3.674

- Subject: The Emerging Field of Human Non-Coding RNAs
- Author: J. Esteller
- DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2011.06.043

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**