---
title: "TMC6"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene TMC6"
tags: ['TMC6', 'EpidermodysplasiaVerruciformis', 'HPV', 'Mutation', 'SkinDisease', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene TMC6

## Genetic Position
TMC6 is a gene located on the long arm of chromosome 11 (11q23.3).

## Pathology
TMC6 is associated with different clinical conditions, including epidermodysplasia verruciformis, a heritable disease characterized by abnormal susceptibility to infection with certain human papillomavirus (HPV) types.

## Function 
TMC6 encodes for transmembrane channel-like protein 6, which is involved in the regulation of viral infections and immune response.

## External IDs, Aliases and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 11840
- NCBI Entrez: 11317
- Ensembl: ENSG00000175119
- OMIM: 609580
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NEV9
- Aliases: EVER1, C11orf30

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several known AA mutations in TMC6 gene, including:
- p.Leu430Serfs*5 (dbSNP:rs761429371), a frameshift mutation leading to protein truncation.
- p.His129Arg (dbSNP:rs145411335), a missense mutation leading to altered protein function.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels in TMC6 gene.

## Related Disease
- Epidermodysplasia verruciformis (EV): a heritable disease characterized by abnormal susceptibility to infection with certain human papillomavirus (HPV) types.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no specific treatment available for EV. Management consists of close dermatological monitoring and removal of skin lesions as necessary.
Long-term prognosis of EV is generally good, but individuals with EV are at increased risk of developing malignant skin tumors.

## Drug Response 
There is no known drug to treat or prevent EV.

## Related Papers
- Lazarczyk M, Pons C, Mendoza JA, Cassonnet P, Jacob Y, Birtle Z, et al. Regulation of cellular zinc balance as a potential mechanism of EVER-mediated protection against pathogenesis by cutaneous oncogenic human papillomaviruses. J Exp Med. 2008;205(1):35-42. doi: 10.1084/jem.20071840
- Wang J, Shen H, Lin CY, Wu J, Feng B, Ho MS, et al. Heritable skin diseases: molecular and clinical update and advancements. Zhonghua Yi Xue Yi Chuan Xue Za Zhi. 2018;35(4):517-524. doi: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.1003-9406.2018.04.020.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**