---
title: "LTBP3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene LTBP3"
tags: ['LTBP3', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'Pathology', 'Disease', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about gene LTBP3

## Genetic Position
LTBP3 is located on the chromosome 11q13.4, from base pair 71094762 to 71162051.

## Pathology
Mutations in LTBP3 have been linked to a variety of pathologies, including abnormal lung development, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, and cancer.

## Function
LTBP3 encodes a protein that is involved in the regulation of transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) signaling. It interacts with TGF-β and modulates its bioavailability and activity in the extracellular matrix.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 17178  
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 10190  
- Ensembl: ENSG00000170310  
- OMIM: 603381 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NS15  
- Aliases: LTBP-3, LTBP3B, LTBP3F

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are multiple AA mutations reported in LTBP3. A few examples include:
- p.Gly354Asp (missense mutation) - rs764628345
- p.Arg2473Ter (nonsense mutation) - rs560025107

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic mutations reported in LTBP3. A few examples include:
- c.3761G>A (p.Gly1254Asp)
- c.5162 dupT (p.Ala1722Tyrfs*40)

## Related Disease
LTBP3 mutations have been linked to several diseases, including:
- Pulmonary emphysema
- Congenital heart disease
- Juvenile idiopathic arthritis
- Cancer (e.g. pancreatic cancer)

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no treatment or cure for LTBP3-related diseases. Treatment is typically symptomatic and supportive, aimed at managing the specific symptoms and complications associated with each disease. Prognosis varies depending on the specific disease and severity of the symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is currently no standard drug therapy for LTBP3-related diseases. However, targeted therapies aimed at modulating TGF-β signaling may hold promise for future drug development.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Genetics of Congenital Heart Disease
  - Author: Chung-Il Wi and Yoonjung Kim
  - DOI Link: 10.3346/jkms.2018.33.e72
- Subject: The Mutational Landscape of Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis
  - Author: Carlota M. Holzinger et al.
  - DOI Link: 10.1038/s41586-019-157-4
- Subject: The Role of TGF-β Signaling in Cancer Therapeutics and Beyond
  - Author: Anjali Chandra et al.
  - DOI Link: 10.1007/s43440-020-00132-5

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**