---
title: "PRF1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene PRF1"
tags: ['PRF1', 'Perforin', 'ImmuneSurveillance', 'HLH', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene PRF1

## Basic Information
- Gene: PRF1 (Perforin 1)
- Genomic location: Chromosome 10q22.1
- Alias: P1, PFP

## Function
The PRF1 gene encodes for a protein called perforin 1, which functions as a pore-forming protein. Perforin is primarily expressed in cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) and natural killer (NK) cells and plays a critical role in immune surveillance for viral and cancer cells. It binds to the target cell membrane and liberates granzymes, which activate apoptosis in the target cell.

## External IDs and Links
- HGNC: 9362
- NCBI Entrez: 5551
- Ensembl: ENSG00000125868
- OMIM: 170280
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P14222

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several known mutations in the PRF1 gene that have been linked to different pathologies. Some of them are:

| Mutation        | Type            | dbSNP ID |
|----------------|----------------|----------|
| p.Ala91Val | Missense mutation | rs1057519514   |
| p.Trp374Ter | Nonsense mutation | rs398123299   |
| p.Asn252Ser   | Missense mutation | rs104894642    |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic mutations found in the PRF1 gene that have been linked to different kinds of cancers, including leukemia, lymphoma, and solid tumors. Some of them are:

| Mutation        | Type            | dbSNP ID |
|----------------|----------------|----------|
| c.274G>A | Missense mutation | rs63750449   |
| c.1079G>A | Missense mutation | rs577267754   |
| c.1181C>A  | Missense mutation | rs587776794   |

## Related Diseases
Several diseases have been associated with mutations in the PRF1 gene, including:
- Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH)
- Multiple sclerosis (MS)
- Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)

## Treatment and Prognosis
Current treatments for diseases linked to the PRF1 gene focus on reducing inflammation, regulating immune responses, and managing symptoms. In HLH, stem cell transplant is used in severe cases. The prognosis for patients with PRF1-related conditions largely varies, depending on the severity and specific features of the disorder.

## Drug Response
There are no drugs currently approved specifically for treating PRF1-related diseases. However, several drugs are repurposed to address the various symptoms associated with these conditions, such as cyclophosphamide, etoposide, and corticosteroids.

## References
- Voskoboinik, I et al. "Perforin: Structure, Function, and Role in Human Immunity." Immunological Reviews. vol. 274, no. 1, 2016, pp. 11–26. doi: 10.1111/imr.12459.
- Zhang, K and Filipovich, AH. Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis: advancements in pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment. The Journal of Pediatrics. vol. 202, no. 3S, 2020, pp. 27-36. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2018.11.044. 
- Chiarle, R et al. "The anaplastic lymphoma kinase in the pathogenesis of cancer." Nature Reviews Cancer. vol. 8, no. 1, 2008, pp. 11-23. doi: 10.1038/nrc2291.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**