---
title: "LLGL1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene LLGL1"
tags: ['LLGL1', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticMutation', 'SomaticVariant', 'Cancer', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about Gene LLGL1

## Gene Position and Basic Information
- **Gene:** LLGL1 (Lethal giant larvae homolog 1)
- **Aliases:** 
    - Stbm (swabbed) 
    - DLG6 (discs large homolog 6) 
    - HUGL (human homolog of Drosophila lethal-2-giant larvae protein)
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 17q25.1
- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 6632
    - NCBI Entrez: 3996
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000141556
    - OMIM: 605545
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q15334

## Function of Gene LLGL1
The LLGL1 gene provides instructions for creating a protein that helps in regulating the shape and polarity of cells. It plays a vital role in the development and maintenance of epithelial tissues.

## Mutation Information
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**
    - No pathogenic mutation found in Clinvar.
    - COSMIC has recorded 2 non-synonymous mutations at positions E634K and E574K.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - In COSMIC, 1 somatic variant recorded in the LLGL1 gene with dbSNP ID rs780563348.

## Related Diseases
- No specific disease associated with the LLGL1 gene, however, it may contribute to the pathogenesis of different types of cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Since it isn't a directly linked to any specific disease, there is no specific treatment or prognosis available.

## Drug Response
- No record of drug response associated with the LLGL1 gene.

## Related Papers
- **Author Name:** Mo JS, Park HW, Guan KL. 
  - **Paper Title:** The Hippo signaling pathway in stem cell biology and cancer.  
  - **Published On:** Semin Cell Dev Biol. 2012 Sep;23(7):818-30. 
  - **DOI:** [10.1016/j.semcdb.2012.06.006](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.semcdb.2012.06.006))  

- **Author Name:** Palini A, Liberati S, Dondero F, Mezzanotte M, Visentin M, Costa A, Moretti E, Giorgetti A, Garuti M, Chiadò Fiorio Tin M, Angelini A, Di Giacomo M, Levi-Setti PE. 
  - **Paper Title:** Single-cell DNA analysis reveals early genetic changes in human preimplantation embryos.  
  - **Published On:** Nat Commun. 2020 Dec 16;11(1):6300. 
  - **DOI:** [10.1038/s41467-020-19831-8](https://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-19831-8))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**