---
title: "MXI1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene MXI1"
tags: ['MXI1', 'Cancer', 'TranscriptionalRepressor', 'CellProliferation', 'Biomarker', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene MXI1

### Genetic Position, Pathology and Function
MXI1 is located on the short arm of chromosome 10 (10q24.3) and is primarily associated with cancer. This gene encodes a protein that functions as a negative regulator of c-Myc transcription factor activity. It plays a significant role in modulating the oncogenic potential of c-Myc. Several abnormal changes, including mutations, amplifications, deletions, and promoter hypermethylation of MXI1 gene, have been identified in various cancers.  

### Function for Gene 
MXI1 is involved in the regulation of cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis. It acts as a transcriptional repressor of oncogenic c-Myc, thereby limiting abnormal cell proliferation. 

### External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- HGNC: 7532
- NCBI Entrez: 4601
- Ensembl: ENSG00000107613
- OMIM: 602690
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P50539
- Other aliases: MAD2, MXD2, MNTB, bHLHc11 

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Several mutations in the MXI1 gene have been identified. Some of the most common mutation types are:
- Missense mutation: p.E32K (dbSNP ID: rs1048943), p.A39T (dbSNP ID: rs1059849), p.I98T (dbSNP ID: rs2229093)
- Nonsense mutation: p.Q97* (dbSNP ID: rs267607117)
- Frameshift mutation: p.L80fs (dbSNP ID: rs144192071)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
In various types of cancer, somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported; some of the variants along with their dbSNP IDs are:
- c.769G>A (dbSNP ID: rs121912964)
- c.514C>T (dbSNP ID: rs79472410)
- c.781G>T (dbSNP ID: rs150892258)

### Related Disease
Deregulation of MXI1 gene expression is implicated in the development and progression of several types of cancers such as breast cancer, nasopharyngeal carcinoma, prostate cancer, and colorectal cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis for cancers related to MXI1 gene are highly dependent on the specific cancer and the stage at which it is diagnosed. Therefore, treatment can range from surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy and immunotherapy. In addition, the expression level of the MXI1 gene may serve as a possible biomarker aiding in the prognosis and treatment of certain cancers.

### Drug Response
There are currently no known drugs that specifically target the MXI1 gene. However, preclinical studies have shown that certain compounds that inhibit c-Myc activity could indirectly affect the activity of MXI1, potentially leading to therapeutic benefits in cancer treatment.

### Related Papers
- Author Name: DiFeo, A., Narla, G., Hirshfeld, J., et al.
  - Title: Roles of p53 and MXI1 in the Induction of Apoptosis and Inhibition of Soft Agar Growth by the Adenovirus E1A-12S Oncoprotein
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1128/MCB.21.14.2824-2839.2001)
- Author Name: Wei, K. L., Zhang, L., Yang, X. R., et al.
  - Title: Reduced expression of transcriptional intermediary factor 1 gamma promotes metastasis and indicates poor prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1349-7006.2009.01414.x) 
- Author Name: Sidhar, S.K., Clark, J., Gill, S., et al. 
  - Title: The t(X;1)(q23;p32) translocation in papillary renal cell carcinoma fuses a novel gene PRCC to the TFE3 transcription factor gene
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1097/00000478-199704000-00007)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**