---
title: "RGS9"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "Gene Name: RGS9"
tags: ['RGS9', 'GProteinSignaling', 'Neurotransmitter', 'TourettesSyndrome', 'ObsessiveCompulsiveDisorder', 'GeneticDisorders', 'CognitiveBehavioralTherapy', 'MedicalTreatment']
---

Gene Name: RGS9

## Function
Regulates G protein signaling by accelerating the GTPase activity of G protein alpha subunits, thereby driving them into their inactive GDP-bound form. Plays a role in regulating the dopaminergic and opioidergic neurotransmitter signaling pathways. May play a role in the perception of pain.

## External IDs and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 9989
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 8787
- Ensembl: ENSG00000164270
- OMIM: 602680
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P49802

The gene is located on Chromosome 17: 34,162,202 - 34,214,634.

Aliases: RGS9BP, RGS9L

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- A variant in the RGS9 gene rs62636947, has been identified as associated with the risk of developing Tourette's syndrome.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known somatic SNVs or InDels in the RGS9 gene.

## Related disease
Defects in RGS9 have been associated with:
- Obsessive-compulsive disorder
- Tourette syndrome

## Treatment and prognosis
Currently, there are no known specific medical treatments for RGS9-related disorders. However, treatments such as cognitive-behavioral therapy and/or medications for easing specific symptoms may be effective in managing the disorders.

## Drug response
There is currently no information on drug response specific to RGS9-related disorders.

## Related papers
- "Rare exonic deletions implicate the synaptic organizer Gephyrin (GPHN) in risk for Tourette syndrome" (DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.b.32773)
- "Genome-wide association study for Tourette syndrome identifies novel risk loci and outlines affected developmental pathways" (DOI: 10.1038/mp.2018.106)
- "Association of a rare variant in RGS9 with Tourette syndrome in a Canadian population" (DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.b.32670)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**