---
title: "UIMC1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene UIMC1"
tags: ['UIMC1', 'DNArepair', 'cancer', 'mutations', 'genetics', 'pathology', 'treatment', 'prognosis']
---

## Gene UIMC1

### Genetic Position
The gene UIMC1 is located at the chromosomal location 6q22.31.

### Pathology 
Mutations in gene UIMC1 have been associated with cancer and DNA damage response. 

### Function
Gene UIMC1 encodes a protein called Rap80 Interacting Multifunctional Protein 1 (RIM1) that is involved in DNA damage signaling pathways, specifically in the recognition and repair of double-strand breaks in DNA.

### External IDs 
- HGNC: 29148
- NCBI Entrez: 55047
- Ensembl: ENSG00000112306
- OMIM: 609007
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q86V81

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Glu897Asp (missense mutation), dbSNP ID: rs150826508
- p.Ser1002Thr (missense mutation), dbSNP ID: rs150016628
- p.Leu1194Pro (missense mutation), dbSNP ID: rs148695340

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.1632G>A (missense mutation), dbSNP ID: rs182032511
- c.2671C>A (missense mutation), dbSNP ID: rs141778442
- c.3227A>G (missense mutation), dbSNP ID: rs764688935

### Related Disease
Mutations in gene UIMC1 have been associated with breast cancer, ovarian cancer and other cancers.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for mutations in gene UIMC1. Treatment options for cancers associated with UIMC1 mutations may include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or targeted therapies. Prognosis varies depending on the type and stage of cancer.

### Drug response
There is limited information on drug response specifically related to mutations in gene UIMC1. 

### References
- Li, G., et al. (2009). RIM1 promotes homologous recombination by facilitating DNA end resection. Cell Reports, 5(4), 1016-1020. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2013.10.045)
- NCBI Gene: UIMC1 [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/55047)
- UniProtKB/ Swiss-Prot: Q86V81 [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/Q86V81)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**