---
title: "CASP3"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: CASP3"
tags: ['CASP3', 'Apoptosis', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'Genetics', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: CASP3
## Genetic Position
CASP3 gene is located on chromosome 4q35.1.

## Pathology
CASP3 gene is associated with various types of cancer, including colorectal cancer, lung cancer, and breast cancer. Mutations in this gene have been associated with developmental disorders such as neural tube defects.

## Function
CASP3 gene encodes caspase-3 protein which plays an important role in apoptosis, or programmed cell death. Caspase-3 is a cysteine protease that cleaves a variety of cellular proteins during apoptosis which leads to cell death.

## External IDs, Aliases and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 1504
- NCBI Entrez: 836
- Ensembl: ENSG00000164305
- OMIM: 601369
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P42574
- Aliases: CPP32, SCA-1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|---|---|---|
| D28E | Missense | rs74318480 |
| D235G | Missense | rs138993623 |
| N219S | Missense | rs267606734 |
| M193I | Missense | rs267606735 |
| V266A | Missense | rs137854713 |
| P217A | Missense | rs267606736 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
| Mutation | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- |
| c.760A>G | rs1057519794 |
| c.2T>C | rs113700052 |
| c.1261C>G | rs114584619 |

## Related Disease
CASP3 gene mutations are associated with the following diseases:
- Colorectal cancer
- Lung cancer
- Breast cancer
- Neural tube defects

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment available for CASP3-related diseases. However, chemotherapy and radiation therapy are common treatments for cancer patients. Prognosis mainly depends on the stage of the disease at diagnosis.

## Drug Response
There is limited information regarding CASP3 gene and drug response.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Association between CASP3 Polymorphisms and Breast Cancer Risk: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis
- Author: Qiuju Wang, Wenjing Jiang, Miao He, Mengying Sun, Shan Feng, Xueni Liu, Kaifa Wang.
- DOI: 10.1155/2018/9647846

- Subject: Somatic mutations in caspase 3 may be rare but are present in colorectal cancer
- Author: Raffaele Galasso, Gabriella D’Orazio, Giovanni Macchia, Maria Grazia Giampietro, Giovanni Palleschi, Maria Cristina Onesti, Vittorio Tarantino, Franco Silvestris
- DOI: 10.1038/s41418-020-0531-0

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**