---
title: "NCSTN"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene NCSTN"
tags: ['NCSTN', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'Pathology', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene NCSTN

### Genetic Position 
NCSTN gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 at position 21.2 (1q21.2).

### Pathology
Mutations in the NCSTN gene have been associated with familial acne inversa (hidradenitis suppurativa) and Alzheimer's disease.

### Function
The NCSTN gene encodes a protein called nicastrin which is a component of the gamma-secretase complex. This complex is responsible for processing various transmembrane proteins, including the amyloid precursor protein which plays a key role in the development of Alzheimer's disease.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 7873
- NCBI Entrez: 23385
- Ensembl: ENSG00000159399
- OMIM: 605143
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O76064

Aliases: APH-2, FAD, PEN-2, ARC9, MGC117253, MGC138163.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Types
- V174F (Missense) - rs63750968
- G380C (Missense) - rs794729100
- A434V (Missense) - rs532753319
- R587C (Missense) - rs1057518818

### Somatic SNVs/Indels with dbSNP ID
- Not available

### Related Diseases
- Alzheimer's disease
- Familial acne inversa (Hidradenitis Suppurativa)

### Treatment and prognosis 
There is no cure for familial acne inversa. Various treatments that have been used for this disease include antibiotics, anti-inflammatory drugs, corticosteroids, and immunosuppressive drugs. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disease.

There also exist different treatments for Alzheimer's disease, including medications for memory loss, behavioral symptoms, and sleeping problems. However, there is no cure for this disease either, and the prognosis depends on the severity of the symptoms and the progress of the disease.

### Drug Response
There is limited information available on drug response for NCSTN mutations at this time.

### Papers
- **Subject & Author Name:** Familial hidradenitis suppurativa associated with nicastrin mutation: A case report 
DOI: 10.1111/jocd.12622
- **Subject & Author Name:** Evidence for CR1 and CLU gene association with Alzheimer's disease: a meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies 
DOI: 10.1038/mp.2013.46

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**