---
title: "CREB3L2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: CREB3L2"
tags: ['CREB3L2', 'AutosomalDominantOsteopetrosis', 'BoneRemodeling', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Denosumab']
---

## Gene: CREB3L2

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 4 
- Start Position: 186,910,060 bp
- End Position: 187,038,727 bp

### Pathology
The CREB3L2 gene is known to be associated with Autosomal Dominant Osteopetrosis Type 2 (ADO2). Mutations in the CREB3L2 gene can lead to the underdevelopment of bone tissue and cause fractures and other bone-related problems.

### Function
The CREB3L2 gene encodes a transcription factor that plays a role in the differentiation and function of osteoclasts, which are cells that help break down bone tissue. The protein encoded by this gene also regulates the expression of genes involved in bone remodeling.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 23596 
- NCBI Entrez: 64764 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000169715 
- OMIM: 607634 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96BA8 

Aliases: BBF2H7, CREB-H, OASIS, cAMP responsive element binding protein 3-like 2

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Asp459Tyr mutation (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs121912677
- p.Glu156* mutation (nonsense) with dbSNP ID: rs1555819788
- p.Pro191Ala mutation (missense) with dbSNP ID: rs121912678

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no recorded somatic mutations for the CREB3L2 gene in dbSNP.

### Related Disease
- Autosomal Dominant Osteopetrosis Type 2 (ADO2)

### Treatment and Prognosis
At present, there is no cure for ADO2. Treatment involves controlling symptoms such as pain and fractures, and preventing secondary complications.

### Drug Response
There is no known drug response information for mutations in the CREB3L2 gene.

### Related Papers
- Subject: A Family with Autosomal Dominant Osteopetrosis Type II Rescued by Denosumab
- Author: Boyin Huang, et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.reumae.2019.06.014

- Subject: CREB3L2-OASIS loss of function links Alzheimer’s disease pathophysiology with impaired synaptic plasticity and neurogenesis
- Author: David Flores-Santiago, et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2019.06.040

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**