---
title: "TP73"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## TP73 Gene "
tags: ['TP73', 'GeneFunction', 'MutationTypes', 'SomaticMutations', 'Cancer', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## TP73 Gene 

### Function
The TP73 gene encodes for a protein that is involved in cell growth, differentiation, and death pathways. It also plays a crucial role in the development and maintenance of the nervous system.

### External IDs and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 11997
- NCBI Entrez: 7161
- Ensembl: ENSG00000073282
- OMIM: 603389
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O15350

The TP73 gene is located on chromosome 1, specifically at the 1p36.3 position.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID 
The TP73 gene has multiple mutation types that have been identified in different cancers. A few of the most common mutations and their associated dbSNP IDs are as follows:

|Mutation Type|AA Position|dbSNP ID|
|-------------|-----------|--------|
|Missense variant|M72I      |rs1801173|
|Missense variant|V143A     |rs1801174|
|Missense variant|Lys321Gln |rs4648551|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
The TP73 gene also has multiple somatic mutations that have been identified in different cancers. A few of the most common SNVs/InDels and their associated dbSNP IDs are:

|Mutation Type|Name         |dbSNP ID    |
|-------------|-------------|-----------|
|SNV          |p.R156*      |rs155550575|
|SNV          |p. L344fs*12 |rs158514201|
|INDEL        |p.Lys396Ilefs|rs759229653|

### Related Disease
Dysfunction of the TP73 gene has been associated with various cancers, such as neuroblastoma, breast cancer, and lung cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis
No specific treatment or prognosis is available for TP73 gene mutations. However, ongoing research suggests the TP73 gene can be exploited for miRNA-based therapeutic strategies in cancer.

### Drug Response
Current drugs targeting TP73 mutations are not yet available. 

### Related Papers
- **Subject**: Inactivation of the p73 Gene in Human Cancer
- **Author**: E. Rossi, G. Venditti, E. Albanese, et al. 
- **DOI link**: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.onc.1202702)

- **Subject**: The Role of p73 in Cancer
- **Author**: P. Melino, A. Memmi, F. Pelicci, et al.
- **DOI link**: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/nrc1579)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**