---
title: "TIA1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information of Gene TIA1"
tags: ['GeneTIA1', 'NeurodegenerativeDiseases', 'RNA-bindingProtein', 'AlternativeSplicing', 'SomaticMutations', 'ALS', 'FTD', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information of Gene TIA1

## Genetic Position
The gene TIA1 is located on chromosome 2 at the position 2p13.3.

## Pathology
The mutation of the TIA1 gene has been linked to neurodegenerative diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and inclusion body myopathy (IBM). 

## Function
The TIA1 gene encodes for a RNA-binding protein that plays a crucial role in the regulation of alternative splicing and stress granule formation, which are important cellular processes involved in gene expression and response to cellular stress.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC:11892
- NCBI Entrez: 7072
- Ensembl: ENSG00000115523
- OMIM: 600342
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P31483
- Aliases: TIA, TIAL1, NOSIP

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type 
There are several mutations in the TIA1 gene cause an increased susceptibility to neurodegenerative diseases such as ALS and FTD. Here are some examples of AA mutations and their dbSNP ID associated with TIA1 gene:
- A151T, rs149191220
- Q214E, rs769691155
- G327E, rs797044228

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Several somatic SNVs/InDels have been identified in the TIA1 gene in various types of cancer including: 
- Lung adenocarcinoma, rs35340956
- Melanoma, rs863224668 
- Prostate cancer, rs201522793

## Related Diseases
The TIA1 gene is associated with the following diseases: 
- ALS
- FTD
- IBM

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment or cure for neurodegenerative diseases caused by TIA1 mutation. The prognosis of patients with ALS and FTD is generally poor, with a life expectancy ranging from 2 to 5 years after diagnosis.

## Drug Response
There are currently no drugs available that specifically target TIA1 gene mutations or related cellular pathways.

## Related Papers
- Subject: A Structural Basis for Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis without TBK1 Mutation.
  Author: Yang S, et al.
  DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2020.07.025
  
- Subject: TIA1 RRM domain binds RNA with preference for U-rich sequences and targets specific RNA sequences in malaria sporozoites.
  Author: Siegal N, et al.
  DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1917186117 
  
- Subject: Nucleocytoplasmic TDP-43 Redistribution in Cellular Models and Human Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis and Frontotemporal Dementia.
  Author: Wils H, et al.
  DOI: 10.1002/path.2442

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**