---
title: "SRPX2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['SRPX2', 'neurologicaldisorders', 'braindevelopment', 'synapseformation', 'mutation', 'epilepsy', 'speechdisorders', 'drugresponse']
---

## Gene Information
Gene SRPX2 is located on the X chromosome at position Xq22.1 and it encodes for a protein known as sushi repeat-containing protein, X-linked 2 (SRPX2). It has 13 exons and spans approximately 207.2 kb of genomic DNA.

## Function
SRPX2 is important for normal brain development and function. The protein it encodes is involved in the organization and migration of neurons in the cerebral cortex during embryonic development and neuronal renewal in adulthood. It is also involved in the formation and maintenance of synapses, the connections between neurons in the brain.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 11214
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 165121
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000184702
- OMIM ID: 300642
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q7Z6X8
- Aliases: SRPC2, FABP7L2, FABPX2, PRO1598

## Mutations
### AA mutation list with dbSNP ID
- c.1123C>T (p.Pro375Leu) rs17855750
- c.1220G>A (p.Arg407His) rs7695314
- c.138_139delAG (p.Glu46AlafsTer48) rs387907271
- c.1480A>C (p.Ser494Arg) rs61747646
- c.1852C>T (p.Ala618Val) rs34388419

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
None reported.

## Related Disease
Disruptions in SRPX2 function have been linked to a number of neurological conditions, including epilepsy and developmental disorders that affect speech and language abilities.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for conditions caused by SRPX2 mutations, but some symptoms may be alleviated with treatment, such as anti-seizure medications for epilepsy. The prognosis varies depending on the specific condition and severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is currently no information available on drug response related to SRPX2 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Identification and characterization of the human SRPX2 promoter
  - Author: Massinen, S., Tammimies, K., Tapia-Páez, I., Matsson, H., Hokkanen, M.-E., Söderberg, O., et al.
  - DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-17-176
- Subject: A novel susceptibility variant at 10q22.3 (ZEB2) for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
  - Author: Migliorini, G., Fiege, B., Hosking, F. J., Ma, Y., Kumar, R., Sherborne, A. L., et al.
  - DOI: 10.1182/blood-2014-03-563035

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**