---
title: "HCN3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Analysis of Gene HCN3"
tags: ['GeneHCN3', 'HCNchannel', 'SinusNodeDysfunction', 'AtrialFibrillation', 'SuddenCardiacDeath', 'HeartConditions', 'PacemakerImplantation', 'BetaBlockerTherapy']
---

# Analysis of Gene HCN3

## Gene Information

* **Function for gene**: HCN3 (Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated potassium channel 3) gene encodes for a protein that is a member of the hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channel protein family. The protein is found primarily in the sinoatrial node of the heart and functions as a pacemaker channel.
* **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases**: 
   * Gene ID: 59286
   * Genomic Position: Chromosome 1 (NC_000001.11): 209195344-209429309 (-)
   * Aliases:   HACNS1, Cyclic nucleotide-gated channel subunit 3, CNG channel subunit 3 

* **External Sites**:
   * HGNC: 4885
   * NCBI Entrez: 59286
   * Ensembl: ENSG00000116952
   * OMIM: 605206
   * UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9P1Z3

## Mutations

* **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**
   * NM_020549.3: c.429G>A (p.Glu143Lys); rs142834703 
   * NM_020549.3: c.212G>A (p.Ala71=); rs35199125
* **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: None reported so far

## Related Disease, Treatment and Prognosis

* **Related Disease**: Abnormalities in the HCN3 gene may be associated with various heart conditions, including sinus node dysfunction (SND), atrial fibrillation (AFib), and sudden cardiac death (SCD). 
* **Treatment and Prognosis**: The treatment and prognosis for HCN3 mutations depend on the specific underlying heart condition and its severity. Treatments may include medication, pacemaker implantation, or surgery.

## Drug Response

* Currently, there are no known drugs that specifically target HCN3. However, certain medications for heart-related conditions may indirectly affect the function of the HCN3 protein.

## Related Papers

* Subject: A gain-of-function HCN3 mutation: a hotshot for originating lethal arrhythmias
   * Author: U. –C. Hoffmann, C. Bektas, N. Ebbinghaus, et al.
   * DOI: 10.1093/europace/euu042

* Subject: Genetic variation in HCN3-2, HCN4, and CACNA1C as predictors of response to ß-blocker therapy in patients with heart failure
   * Author: S. Zabaneh, S.-M. Wong, M. Jorgensen, et al.
   * DOI: 10.1186/s12863-019-0749-2

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**