---
title: "AMT"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: AMT "
tags: ['AMT', 'Aminomethyltransferase', 'GlycineEncephalopathy', 'Genetics', 'Metabolism', 'Enzyme', 'Mutation', 'Treatment']
---

## Gene: AMT 

- Function: AMT (aminomethyltransferase) is an enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of an amino group from an amino acid to an alpha-ketoacid, thereby facilitating amino acid metabolism. It plays a significant role in the urea cycle and in the synthesis of N-acetylaspartate. 

- External IDs:
  - HGNC: 482
  - NCBI Entrez: 275
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000100277
  - OMIM: 238310
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q06203

- AA Mutation List with dbSNP ID: 
  - p.Arg220Cys (rs104894298)
  - p.Arg239Pro (rs104894299)
  - p.Ala341Thr (rs104894300)
  - p.Asp378Asn (rs387906786)

- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: None reported

- Related Disease: Mutations in the AMT gene have been associated with Glycine encephalopathy, which is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of glycine metabolism that results in severe neurological symptoms.

- Treatment and Prognosis: Currently, there is no cure for Glycine encephalopathy, and treatment options are supportive.  Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disease, but it can be life-threatening.

- Drug Response: Currently, there is no known drug that can cure Glycine encephalopathy, however, treatment options that can alleviate symptoms are available.

### References:

- Kure S, et al. (2006) The molecular basis of glycine encephalopathy revisited: New insights gained from genomics. J Hum Genet 51(4): 208-215. 
- AMT Gene - Genetics Home Reference (GHR). U.S. National Library of Medicine.  [Click](https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/AMT)
- AMT - Aminomethyltransferase - Homo sapiens (Human). UniProt KB. [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/Q06203)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**