---
title: "CYP2E1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene CYP2E1"
tags: ['CYP2E1', 'GeneticVariations', 'Metabolism', 'DiseaseSusceptibility', 'DrugResponse', 'EnvironmentalToxins', 'OxidativeStress', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene CYP2E1

## Genetic position
CYP2E1 (cytochrome P450 family 2 subfamily E member 1) gene is located on chromosome 10(q26.3) in humans.

## Pathology
CYP2E1 gene plays a significant role in metabolizing several substances including alcohol, drugs, and environmental toxins. Genetic variations in this gene may affect the rate of metabolism of these substances, leading to increased susceptibility or resistance to several diseases, including liver diseases, cancer, and diabetes.

## Function for gene
CYP2E1 gene encodes a protein that belongs to the cytochrome P450 group. The protein is involved in the metabolism of many compounds, including ethanol, benzene, and acetaminophen. The protein is capable of producing reactive oxygen species and can cause oxidative stress. 

## External IDs
- HGNC: 2568
- NCBI Entrez: 1571
- Ensembl: ENSG00000142192
- OMIM: 124040
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P05181

## Aliases
- CYP2E
- P450-J
- P450C2E
- CYP2E1P

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- Ilele 135 Thr (I135T) - rs2515641
- Arg 149Cys (R149C) - rs6413419
- Arg 233Leu (R233L) - rs2070672
- Lys 241Glu (K241E) - rs2070673

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs397514700
- rs267606957
- rs149574870
- rs267606955
- rs762551386

## Related Disease
Variations in the CYP2E1 gene have been associated with several diseases, including:
- Alcoholic liver disease
- Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection
- Diabetes Type 2
- Several types of cancers including leukemia, breast cancer, and lung cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment for genetic variations in the CYP2E1 gene. However, modifying environmental factors like alcohol consumption, exposure to environmental toxins, and management of other risk factors may reduce the risk of developing associated diseases. A prognosis is determined based on the severity of the associated disease and the individual's response to appropriate treatment and management.

## Drug Response
Variations in CYP2E1 gene may affect the response to certain drugs like: 
- Acetaminophen, which is commonly used to alleviate pain and reduce fever
- Halothane, an anesthetic agent
- Nitrosamines, carcinogenic compounds found in tobacco products.

## Subject and Author Name, DOI Links to Related Papers
- Subject: High dose exposure of benzene to CYP2E1 knockout mice leads to thrombocytosis and leukemia. 
  - Author: Sun J, Xu Y, Dai J, Li W, Zhang Q, Huang Q, Shuai X
  - DOI: 10.1007/s11356-017-9755-8 
- Subject: Polymorphism of Cytochrome P450 2E1*1D and susceptibility to alcoholic liver disease in a Chinese Han population.
  - Author: Zhang Y, Liu Y, Chen J, Zhao F, Chen T, Wang L, Li L, Yan X, Shi Y
  - DOI: 10.1590/0004-2803.20180026

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**