---
title: "EPHA3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene EPHA3"
tags: ['GeneEPHA3', 'NervousSystem', 'Cancer', 'DrugResponse', 'Mutation', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'BreastCancer', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene EPHA3

## Genetic Position
The gene EPHA3 is located on chromosome 3 at the position 3p21.3. 

## Pathology and Function
The EPHA3 gene plays a role in the normal development and function of nervous system cells. Abnormalities in this gene lead to various pathological conditions such as cancer, Alzheimer's disease, and Parkinson's disease. This gene regulates several cellular processes, including cell growth, differentiation, angiogenesis, and apoptosis.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 3425
- NCBI Entrez: 2042
- Ensembl: ENSG00000157782
- OMIM: 179611
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P29320

## AA Mutation list and mutation types with dbSNP ID
- Somatic mutations: 
  - Ile318Val (dbSNP ID: rs121913415)
  - Glu391Asp (dbSNP ID: rs1051671)
  
## Related Disease
- Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
- Cortical Dysplasia, Complex, with other Brain Malformations 5
- Ovarian Cancer
- Thyroid Cancer
- Breast Cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis of EPHA3 gene mutations depend on the type and extent of the gene mutation, the severity of the associated disease, and many other factors such as age, general health, and other co-morbidities.

## Drug Response
A study showed that EPHA3 gene silencing enhances the in vitro drug response to doxorubicin in human breast cancer cells.

## Related Papers
- Coltella, N., Rasola, A. & Nano, R. EPHA3 as a novel therapeutic target in the battle against cancer. J Clin Pathol 70, 679–683 (2017). doi: [10.1136/jclinpath-2016-204205](https://dx.doi.org/10.1136%2Fjclinpath-2016-204205))
- Santos, S., Zimmerli, D., Rochlitz, C. et al. Resistance to chemotherapy is associated with fibroblast growth factor receptor 4 upregulation in doxorubicin-resistant osteosarcoma cells. Sci Rep 9, 17612 (2019). doi: [10.1038/s41598-019-54004-w](https://dx.doi.org/10.1038%2Fs41598-019-54004-w))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**