---
title: "COQ9"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: COQ9"
tags: ['COQ9', 'CoenzymeQ', 'Mitochondria', 'PrimaryCoenzymeQ10Deficiency', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

## Gene: COQ9

### Genomic Location
- Chromosome: 16
- Position: 16q21
- Strand: -
- Start: 57,991,168
- End: 58,003,952

### Function
The COQ9 gene encodes a protein that is part of the coenzyme Q biosynthesis pathway. CoQ (Coenzyme Q) is an important component of the electron transport chain in the mitochondria, which generates ATP. The COQ9 protein is involved in the hydroxylation of an early precursor of CoQ.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 24202
- NCBI Entrez: 80208
- Ensembl: ENSG00000140979
- OMIM: 609825
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HCC0
- Other aliases: ADCK4, COQ10D3

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Thr294Serfs*7 - frameshift deletion (dbSNP - rs1114167279)
- p.Ala151Val - missense mutation (dbSNP - rs374566234)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic variants reported for COQ9 gene.

### Related Disease
Mutations in the COQ9 gene have been associated with Primary Coenzyme Q10 Deficiency Type 4 (OMIM - 612016).

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for primary CoQ10 deficiency caused by mutations in the COQ9 gene. Treatment options include CoQ10 supplementation. The prognosis and outlook for patients with primary Coenzyme Q10 deficiency depend on the severity and progression of the disease.

### Drug Response
CoQ10 supplementation can help alleviate some of the symptoms associated with primary CoQ10 deficiency.

### Related Papers
- Heeringa SF, Chernin G, Chaki M, Zhou W, Sloan AJ, Ji Z, Xie LX, Salviati L, Hurd TW, Vega-Warner V, Killen PD, Raphael Y, Ashraf S, Ovunc B, Schoeb DS, McLaughlin HM, Airik R, Vlangos CN, Gbadegesin RA, Hinkes B, Saisawat P, Trevisson E, Doimo M, Casarin A, Pertegato V, Giorgi G, Prokisch H, Rotig A, Nurnberg G, Becker C, Wang S, Ozaltin F, Topaloglu R, Bakkaloglu A, Bakkaloglu SA, Muller D, Beissert A, Mir S, Berdeli A, Varpizen S, Zenker M, Matejas V, Santos-Ocana C, Navas P, Kusakabe T, Kispert A, Akman S, Soliman NA, Krick S, Mundel P, Reiser J, Nurnberg P, Clarke CF, Wiggins RC, Faul C, Hildebrandt F. COQ6 mutations in human patients produce nephrotic syndrome with sensorineural deafness. J Clin Invest. 2011 May 2;121(5):2013-24.
- Duncan AJ, Bitner-Glindzicz M, Meunier B, Costello H, Hargreaves IP, Lopez LC, Hirano M, Quinzii CM, Sadowski MI, Hardy J, Singleton A, Kelly DA, Taylor RW. A nonsense mutation in COQ9 causes autosomal-recessive neonatal-onset primary coenzyme Q10 deficiency: a potentially treatable form of mitochondrial disease. Am J Hum Genet. 2009 Jan;84(1):558-66.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**