---
title: "ISX"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene: ISX"
tags: ['ISXgene', 'homeoboxprotein', 'cancer', 'cellproliferation', 'differentiation', 'liverdevelopment', 'pancreasdevelopment', 'geneticinformationanalysis']
---

### Gene: ISX

#### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 4
- Location: 4p13-p12

#### Pathology
- Although no specific pathology is associated with ISX gene mutations, studies have shown that alterations in ISX expression may contribute to the development of various types of cancer, including breast, ovarian, and liver cancer.

#### Function
- The ISX gene encodes for a homeobox protein that plays a crucial role in regulating cell proliferation and differentiation in various tissues. Additionally, it is involved in the development of the liver and pancreas during embryonic development.

#### External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 64783
- HGNC ID: 29698
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000114713
- OMIM ID: 604157
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96HZ4
- Other aliases: IPF1-like homeobox protein 2, IPFL2, ISX-1, ISX-2

#### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No common mutations are reported for ISX gene in dbSNP.

#### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels are reported for ISX gene in dbSNP.

#### Related Disease
- Breast, ovarian, liver, and pancreatic cancer have been implicated in association with the expression of ISX gene.

#### Treatment and Prognosis
- Since there are no specific pathology or mutations associated with ISX gene, there is no known treatment or prognosis.

#### Drug Response
- No drug response is reported based on ISX gene expression.

#### Related Papers
- Vasilyev SA, Novosadova EV, Ozoline ON, Poloznikov AA. "The role of ISX in the development of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer." J Genet Syndr Gene Ther. 2017;8(2):329. doi: 10.4172/2157-7412.1000329. PMID: 29657682; PMCID: PMC5899183.
- Sun SM, Jiang X, Zhang WT. "The role of ISX in liver cancer and its regulation." Life Sci. 2021 Mar 1;271:119152. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2021.119152. Epub 2021 Jan 7. PMID: 33421679.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**