---
title: "MGAT4B"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene MGAT4B"
tags: ['Gene', 'MGAT4B', 'N-glycans', 'Enzyme', 'Biosynthesis', 'NoDiseaseAssociation', 'NoKnownTreatment', 'NoKnownDrugResponse']
---

# Information about gene MGAT4B

## Genetic Position
- Gene: MGAT4B
- Chromosome: 4
- Location: 4q21.1

## Pathology
- MGAT4B is not associated with any known pathology.

## Function
- MGAT4B encodes for an enzyme called alpha-1,3-mannosyl-glycoprotein 4-beta-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase, which is involved in the biosynthesis of complex N-glycans.
- The enzyme adds a N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) residue to a mannose residue on the N-linked glycan of glycoprotein substrates.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 27009
- NCBI Entrez: 54501
- Ensembl: ENSG00000197606
- OMIM: 610426
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HBT5

### Aliases
- GnT-IVB
- GnT-IV.2
- GnT-IVb
- N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase IVb
- Alpha-1,3-mannosyl-glycoprotein 4-beta-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase B

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- There are no reported AA mutations for MGAT4B in dbSNP.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for MGAT4B in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
- There is currently no known disease associated with MGAT4B.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Since there is no known disease associated with MGAT4B, there are no known treatments or prognosis related to this gene.

## Drug Response
- There is currently no known drug response related to MGAT4B.

## Papers
- Subject: MGAT4B
- Author: Mitsuko Takahashi, Toshihiko Katoh, Koji Kita, et al.
- DOI: 10.1093/glycob/6.7.775
- Title: Cloning and expression of cDNA encoding human N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase IV, an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of the cancer-associated sialyl-Le(x) antigen
- Journal: Glycobiology
- Year: 1996

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**