---
title: "SYCE2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene SYCE2"
tags: ['SYCE2', 'Meiosis', 'Infertility', 'Mutation', 'ART', 'SynaptonemalComplex', 'HomologousRecombination', 'GeneticAnalysis']
---

# Information about gene SYCE2

## Genetic position
SYCE2 gene is located on chromosome 20q13.33.

## Pathology
Pathogenic variants in SYCE2 can lead to male and female infertility due to meiotic defects.

## Function
SYCE2 plays a crucial role in meiosis, particularly in chromosome synapsis and recombination.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 29954
- NCBI Entrez: 643074
- Ensembl: ENSG00000182484
- OMIM: 611486
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N7S8
- Aliases: C20orf133, FLJ35567, RP11-414G10.1

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are various amino acid (AA) mutations reported in SYCE2, including:
- c.236G>A (p.Arg79His) rs748630124
- c.414C>T (p.Arg138Ter) rs786200668
- c.650G>A (p.Arg217His) rs773899472
- c.665C>A (p.Pro222Thr) rs752325220

All these mutations are missense or nonsense mutations.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no somatic SNVs/InDels reported for SYCE2 gene so far.

## Related disease
Pathogenic variants in SYCE2 are associated with female and male infertility.

## Treatment and prognosis
Currently, there are no specific treatments for infertility caused by SYCE2 gene mutations. However, assisted reproductive technology (ART) such as in vitro fertilization (IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) may help couples to conceive.

## Drug response
There is no known drug response or targeted therapies reported for the treatment of infertility caused by SYCE2 gene mutations.

## Related papers
- Name of the paper: "**A novel homozygous mutation in SYCE2 (c.414 C>T) leads to progressive loss of sperm motility**"
  - Author(s) name(s): Liu G, Tang W, Liu Y, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-13667-5)
  
- Name of the paper: "**SYCE2 is required for synaptonemal complex assembly, double strand break repair, and homologous recombination**"
  - Author(s) name(s): Yang F, Gao Y, Li W, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-06842-3)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**