---
title: "BCL2"
date: 2023-04-12 00:00:00
summary: "# Gene: BCL2"
tags: ['Gene: BCL2', '# Genetic Position', '# Pathology', '# Function', '# External IDs and Aliases', '# AA Mutation List and Mutation Type (with dbSNP IDs)', '# Somatic SNVs/InDels (with dbSNP IDs)', '# Related Disease', '# Treatment and Prognosis', '# Drug Response', '# Related Papers']
---

# Gene: BCL2

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 18
- Genomic Location: 18q21.33

## Pathology
- BCL2 gene has been found to be associated with various diseases, including cancer.
- Dysregulation of BCL2 gene expression and mutations in the gene have been observed in many types of cancer, including leukemia, lymphoma, breast cancer, lung cancer, and others.
- Increased expression of BCL2 has been linked to anti-apoptotic activity, leading to resistance to chemotherapy and radiation therapy in cancer treatment.

## Function
- BCL2 is an anti-apoptotic gene that regulates cell survival by inhibiting programmed cell death or apoptosis.
- It is involved in the regulation of mitochondrial membrane permeability, which is important for the initiation of apoptosis.
- BCL2 blocks the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria, which inhibits the activation of caspases and prevents apoptosis.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 990
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 596
- Ensembl: ENSG00000171791
- OMIM: 151430
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P10415
- Other Aliases: B-cell CLL/lymphoma 2, BCL-2, PPP1R50

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type (with dbSNP IDs)
- p.S70G (rs537184698) - Missense
- p.R110C (rs750550629) - Missense
- p.A128V (rs375328367) - Missense
- p.T149S (rs33999907) - Missense
- p.G171D (rs142468031) - Missense

## Somatic SNVs/InDels (with dbSNP IDs)
- rs62650447
- rs165597

## Related Disease
- Cancer
- B-cell lymphomas
- Leukemia
- Breast cancer
- Lung cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Overexpression of BCL2 in cancer cells can hinder apoptosis, leading to resistance to chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
- Targeted therapies that inhibit the function of BCL2 or promote apoptosis are being developed for the treatment of cancer.
- The expression of BCL2 is also being studied as a prognostic marker in various cancers.

## Drug Response
- Venetoclax is a small molecule inhibitor of BCL2 approved by the FDA for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL).

## Related Papers
- Subject: BCL2 Regulation and Anti-Apoptotic Function in Cancer Cells
  - Author: Huang, D. C. S.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ccr.2017.11.006
- Subject: Targeting BCL2 in Hematologic Malignancies
  - Author: Oltersdorf, T.
  - DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1311092
- Subject: Venetoclax: A Review of Its Use in Patients with Hematologic Malignancies
  - Author: Dhillon, S.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s40265-016-0692-2