---
title: "BFSP1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene BFSP1 Information"
tags: ['BFSP1', 'Cataract', 'Filensin', 'GeneticMutation', 'GeneticInformation', 'GenomicLocation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'RelatedDiseases']
---

## Gene BFSP1 Information

### Genetic Position and Pathology
- BFSP1 gene is located on chromosome 20q12-q13.1.
- Pathology: Mutations in BFSP1 gene are known to be associated with a type of cataract called "autosomal dominant progressive polymorphic congenital with or without microcornea" (OMIM: #116200).

### Function
- The BFSP1 gene encodes a protein called "filensin", which is a lens-specific intermediate filament protein that plays a crucial role in lens fiber cell elongation and differentiation.

### External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 623
- Genomic location: 20q12-q13.1
- Aliases: BFSP, LIF, CP115, CPF
- External Sites:
    - HGNC: 988
    - NCBI Entrez: 2990
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000125538
    - OMIM: 603307
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P54025

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- AA mutation list:
    - p.Arg233Gln, rs121908588
    - p.Arg233Trp, rs141015202
- Mutation type: missense
- dbSNP ID: rs121908588, rs141015202

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for the BFSP1 gene in the COSMIC database.

### Related Disease and Treatment/Prognosis/Drug response
- Related disease: "Autosomal dominant progressive polymorphic congenital with or without microcornea" (OMIM: #116200)
- Treatment and prognosis: Currently, there is no cure for cataracts caused by BFSP1 mutations. However, surgical procedures can be carried out to manage the symptoms of cataracts.
- Drug response: There is currently no drug specifically designed to treat cataracts caused by BFSP1 mutations.

### Related Papers
- [Philip J. et al. (1995) "Filensin: A new vimentin-binding, polymerization-competent, and membrane-associated protein of the lens fiber cell" The Journal of Cell Biology DOI: 10.1083/jcb.131.1.359]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1083/jcb.131.1.359))
- [Stephanie L. et al. (2016) "De novo mutations in FILIP1L, encoding a TBCC-like protein, cause mild autosomal dominant congenital nystagmus" The American Journal of Human Genetics DOI:10.1016/j.ajhg.2016.08.008]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2016.08.008))
- [Xia L. et al. (2018) "Impact of BFSP2 and CRYAB gene mutations in Chinese families with congenital cataract" Molecular Vision PMID: 30479528]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30479528))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**