---
title: "GORAB"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## **Information about Gene GORAB**"
tags: ['GORAB', 'GerodermaOsteodysplastica', 'ARCL2', 'GolgiApparatus', 'Mutation', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'QualityOfLife', 'GeneticDisorders']
---

## **Information about Gene GORAB**
##### **Genetic Position**
Gene GORAB is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 at position 24.2 (1q24.2). It spans approximately 104.29 kilobases (kb) of genomic DNA.
##### **Pathology**
Mutation in the GORAB gene has been associated with two genetic disorders: Geroderma osteodysplastica (GO) and Autosomal Recessive Cutis Laxa Type 2 (ARCL2).
##### **Function**
The GORAB gene encodes a protein that belongs to the golgin family. The protein is specifically located in the Golgi apparatus and is involved in the maintenance of this organelle's structure and morphogenesis. The GORAB protein interacts with several other Golgi-resident proteins and plays a vital role in Golgi organization. 
##### **External IDs and Aliases**
- HGNC ID: 25717
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 79969
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000164007
- OMIM ID: 607983
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q5VW87
- Aliases: C1orf123, SCYL1BP1
##### **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**
Several AA mutations have been reported in the GORAB gene. Some of them are:
- p.Leu329ArgfsTer60
- p.Ala330AspfsTer74
- p.Arg332*
- p.Gly346ValfsTer31
- p.Gly346*
These mutations are frameshift or nonsense mutations, causing premature stop codons to occur and yielding truncated proteins. Their dbSNP IDs for single nucleotide variations (SNVs) are rs768698015, rs137852498, rs758040337, rs137852500, and rs137852501, respectively.
##### **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**
There are currently no reported somatic mutations for GORAB in dbSNP.
##### **Related Disease**
Geroderma osteodysplastica (GO) and Autosomal Recessive Cutis Laxa Type 2 (ARCL2) are the two known genetic disorders caused by mutations in the GORAB gene. GO is characterized by premature skin aging, various bone abnormalities, and other progressive clinical features such as intellectual disability. ARCL2 entails loose, wrinkled, and redundant skin with inelasticity of the skin and ligaments, as well as skeletal abnormalities.
##### **Treatment and Prognosis**
Currently, there is no particular treatment for the underlying cause of GO, but management of its symptoms is available to improve the quality of life of the affected individuals. Similarly, no cure is available for ARCL2, but treatment is symptomatic and mainly aimed at reducing respiratory difficulties, improving joint mobility, and preventing complications.
##### **Drug Response**
There is currently no information available on drug response for individuals with GORAB mutations.
##### **Related Papers**
- **Author**: Alazami, A.M., Adly, N., Al Dhalaan, H., Alkuraya, F.S.
  **Title**: Germ-line mutation in the cytoplasmic domain of GORAB rescued autosomal recessive geroderma osteodysplastica.
  **Journal**: J Med Genet 47, 385-390 (2010). DOI:10.1136/jmg.2009.076497
- **Author**: Fischer, B., Risse, F.J., Wohlleben, B., et al.
  **Title**: Compound heterozygosity of the novel GORAB allele c. 350delG with the recurrent p. Arg332Ser mutation in two unrelated families with geroderma osteodysplastica.
  **Journal**: Clin Genet 0789, 285-287 (2010). DOI:10.1111/j.1399-0004.2010.01416.x

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**