---
title: "MPC1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene MPC1 "
tags: ['MPC1', 'MitochondrialPyruvateCarrier', 'EnergyMetabolism', 'MissenseMutation', 'SomaticMutation', 'GeneticDisease', 'DrugResponse', 'MitochondrialFunction']
---

### Gene MPC1 

MPC1( mitochondrial pyruvate carrier 1) gene is located on chromosome 1q21.2. This gene is involved in energy metabolism, particularly in mitochondrial pyruvate transport.   

#### Function for gene
The gene MPC1 encodes for a component of the mitochondrial pyruvate carrier that mediates the transport of mitochondrial pyruvate from the cytoplasm into the mitochondrial matrix for oxidative phosphorylation. 

#### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- Gene ID: 10930
- Genomic location: Chr1:150,331,363-150,338,524 
- Alias: BRP44L, BRP44-like protein, FLJ10452, GPR, mitochondrial pyruvate carrier 1, pyruvate transporter like protein 

#### External sites are HGNC, NCBI Entrez, Ensembl, OMIM, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot
- HGNC: 17751
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 10930
- Ensembl: ENSG00000143601
- OMIM: 614924
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H8M2

#### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are several mutations reported in the MPC1 gene with different mutation types. Here are some examples with dbSNP IDs: 
- rs148368100: p.L126P (missense mutation) 
- rs3733887: p.V67L (missense mutation)
- rs150190445: p.G54R (missense mutation)

#### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Somatic mutations in MPC1 gene were reported in various cancers. Some examples of somatic mutations with dbSNP IDs are: 
- rs776839035: c.122 G > A (missense mutation) 
- rs746527688: c.125 G > A (missense mutation)

#### Related disease
There is no specific disease associated with mutations in the MPC1 gene. 

#### Treatment and prognosis
As there is no specific disease associated with MPC1 gene mutations, there is no specific treatment or prognosis related to it. 

#### Drug response
There is no known drug response related to MPC1 gene mutations.

#### Related papers
- Subject: Mitochondrial pyruvate carrier function in health and disease.
  - Author name: Bender T, Martinou JC.
  - DOI link: 10.1016/j.tcb.2015.03.001.
- Subject: The mitochondrial pyruvate carrier in health and disease: To carry or not to carry?
  - Author name: Tavoulari S, Thangaratnarajah C, Mavridou V, Harbour ME, Martinou JC, Kunji ER.
  - DOI link: 10.1016/j.bbabio.2020.148213.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**