---
title: "TWIST2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for TWIST2"
tags: ['TWIST2', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'CongenitalDisorders', 'SaethreChotzenSyndrome', 'SetleisSyndrome', 'Craniosynostosis', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene Information for TWIST2

## Gene Position
TWIST2 is located on chromosome 2, and the genomic coordinates are: 2q37.1.

## Pathology and Function
TWIST2 is a member of the TWIST family of transcription factors. It plays a crucial role in regulating the development of various tissues, including bone, cartilage, and the nervous system. Mutations in this gene have been associated with various human congenital disorders, including facial clefting, Saethre-Chotzen Syndrome, and Setleis Syndrome.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: TWIST2
- NCBI Entrez: 117581
- Ensembl: ENSG00000174098
- OMIM: 607556
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N4W2

Aliases: TWIST-2, BHLHB38, Class E basic helix-loop-helix protein 38.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several AA mutations in TWIST2, the most common being p.En226K. It is associated with craniosynostosis. 
The corresponding dbSNP ID for this mutation is rs121909128.

Other AA mutations include:
- p.P101S, rs201644975
- p.A109E, rs121909126

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic mutations in TWIST2.

## Related Disease
Mutations in TWIST2 have been linked to several congenital disorders, including:
- Saethre-Chotzen Syndrome
- Setleis Syndrome
- Craniosynostosis

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for patients with TWIST2 mutations varies depending on the specific disorder present. In general, treatment may include surgical intervention and supportive care. Prognosis varies depending on the specific disorder and severity of the mutations.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response associated with TWIST2 mutations.

## References and DOI links
- Setleis Syndrome: A Systematic Review and Case Series, 10.3390/ijms22136897
- Craniosynostosis and syndrome involvement in novel Twist2 translocation partners, 10.1002/mgg3.1848

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**