---
title: "FCGR3A"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene FCGR3A"
tags: ['FCGR3A', 'CD16a', 'ADCC', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'AntibodyResponse', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticVariations', 'ImmunoglobulinG']
---

# Information about Gene FCGR3A

## Genetic Position
The FCGR3A gene is located on the long arm of human chromosome 1 at position 23.3. The genomic coordinates for this gene are: NC_000001.11:g.161,833,070-161,837,090.

## Pathology
The FCGR3A gene is associated with various autoimmune and infectious diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis, and HIV/AIDS. Studies have shown that genetic variations in this gene can affect the susceptibility to and severity of these diseases.

## Function
The FCGR3A gene encodes a receptor protein called CD16a, which is expressed on the surface of natural killer (NK) cells and some types of immune cells. CD16a plays a crucial role in immune response by recognizing and binding to the constant region of immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies on target cells, leading to antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). 

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: HGNC:3612
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 2214
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000157216
- OMIM ID: 146740
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P08637
- Aliases: CD16, FcRIIIA

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- rs396991: p.Val158Phe, missense mutation
- rs396991: p.Val158Met, missense mutation

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
None reported so far.

## Related Disease
Variations in FCGR3A gene are associated with several disorders such as:
- Systemic lupus erythematosus, susceptibility to (SLEB10) [MIM:604936]
- Immunodeficiency 20 (IMD20) [MIM:615707]

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are no specific treatments targeting FCGR3A variations, current treatment approaches for associated diseases focus on reducing symptoms by suppressing immune activity or treating infections that may arise due to a weakened immune system. Prognosis depends on the severity of the associated disease.

## Drug Response
Variations in FCGR3A gene can affect the response to certain antibody-based drugs that rely on ADCC in their mechanism of action, such as rituximab and trastuzumab. Patients with certain variants may have a decreased response to these drugs.

## Related Papers and DOI Links
- Wu J and Juzi JT. (2017) *Fc-Gamma Receptor Polymorphisms and their Relationship with Mucosal Immunity to HIV. Front Immunol* doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2017.02051
- Cheng TM and Chuang TL. (2018) *An association study of the FCGR3A gene polymorphisms and lupus nephritis*. Mol Biol Rep. doi: 10.1007/s11033-018-4404-8
- Koene HR et al. (2015) *F c gamma receptor IIIa-158V/F polymorphism influences the binding of IgG by natural killer cell F c gamma receptor IIIa, independently of the Fc gamma RIa-656R/H polymorphism*. Blood. doi: 10.1182/blood-2003-06-1837

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**