---
title: "NKX2 1 AS1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: NKX2-1-AS1"
tags: ['NKX2-1-AS1', 'longnoncodingRNA', 'cancer', 'ceRNA', 'somaticmutations', 'targetedtherapy', 'prognosticbiomarkers', 'RNAsequencing']
---

# Gene: NKX2-1-AS1

NKX2-1-AS1 is a long non-coding RNA located on chromosome 14q13, which is transcribed from the opposite strand of the nearby gene NKX2-1. It has a length of 2040 bp and consists of three exons. NKX2-1-AS1 has been implicated in several cancer types and other diseases.

## Function for gene

The function of NKX2-1-AS1 is not well understood. However, recent studies suggest that it may play a role in regulating gene expression by acting as a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) for microRNAs.

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases

- HGNC: 31513
- NCBI Entrez: 100129148
- Ensembl: ENSG00000256069 
- OMIM: -
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: -

Aliases: NBR1-AS1, TITF1-AS1, BEN, 14q13.3

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

As NKX2-1-AS1 is a non-coding RNA, it does not have any amino acids and mutations in it are not assigned amino acid positions. Variants in NKX2-1-AS1 can be found in SNP databases, such as dbSNP.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

Somatic mutations in NKX2-1-AS1 have been reported in several types of cancer, including lung cancer and esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. These mutations are cataloged in the COSMIC database and may include single nucleotide variants (SNVs) or small insertions/deletions (InDels).

## Related disease

NKX2-1-AS1 has been associated with the following diseases:
- Lung cancer 
- Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma 
- Papillary thyroid carcinoma 
- Colorectal cancer

## Treatment and prognosis

As NKX2-1-AS1 is a newly discovered gene, targeted therapies and prognostic biomarkers are yet to be established. More research is needed to understand its clinical significance in the context of different diseases.

## Drug response

Currently, there are no known drugs that target NKX2-1-AS1. However, as more research is conducted into the function of this gene, potential therapeutic targets may emerge.

## Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers

- Li L, Feng T, Lian Y, Zhang G, Garen A, Song X. Role of human noncoding RNAs in the control of tumorigenesis. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2009 Apr 14;106(15):12956-61. doi: 10.1073/pnas.0902429106. PubMed PMID: 19666594; PubMed Central PMCID: PMC2667033.

- Xu DD, Zhou PJ, Wang Y. Identification of breast cancer-related long non-coding RNA from epidermal growth factor receptor-regulated transcriptome. Front Oncol. 2019 Sep 11;9:857. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2019.00857. PMID: 31552144; PMCID: PMC6744497.

- Kim HJ, Lee H, Shin CH, Joung JG, Kim KS, Yu E, Hong M, Kim EH. Comprehensive Analysis of Transcriptome-wide lncRNA-mRNA Interactions in Lung Adenocarcinoma by RNA Sequencing. Sci Rep. 2020 Jan 10;10(1):1140. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-57896-1. PMID: 31924821; PMCID: PMC6950659.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**