---
title: "WHRN"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# WHRN gene"
tags: ['WHRN', 'UsherSyndrome', 'HearingLoss', 'VisionImpairment', 'GeneticDisorder', 'StereociliaBundles', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis']
---

# WHRN gene

## Information
- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 9 (9q32.2)
- **Function:** The WHRN gene encodes the protein whirlin which is involved in the formation of stereocilia bundles in sensory hair cells of the inner ear, important for hearing and balance.
- **Aliases:** DFNB31, USH2D

## External IDs
- **HGNC:** 12717
- **NCBI Entrez:** 7572
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000087470
- **OMIM:** 607928
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q9GZN1

## Mutations
### AA Mutations
- WHRN gene has numerous mutations which cause Usher syndrome, a rare genetic disorder affecting hearing and sight. 
- Some of the AA mutations identified in WHRN gene are S2G, R560C, Q770X, L802fs, and N881fs.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
- There are currently no known somatic SNVs/InDels in WHRN gene.

## Related Diseases
- Usher Syndrome: A rare genetic disorder characterized by partial or total hearing loss and vision impairment.
- Non-Syndromic Hearing Loss: A genetic hearing loss affecting only the ear and not associated with other medical problems.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is currently no cure for Usher Syndrome. Treatment focuses on managing the symptoms of the disease.
- Individuals with Usher Syndrome have varying levels of hearing and vision loss, and the prognosis depends on the severity of the disease.

## Drug Response
- There are currently no specific drugs targeting WHRN gene for the treatment of Usher Syndrome.

## References
- Saihan Z, et al. (2018) WHRN (DFNB31) mutations in two hearing-impaired consanguineous families with no vestibular involvement. Eur J Med Genet. 61(12):768-773. PMID: 30195868.
- Kolbe DL, et al. (2013) WHRN and DFNB31 mutations in patients with low-frequency hearing loss. Hum Mutat. 34(12):1596-603. PMID: 24123797.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**