---
title: "UGT2B17"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene UGT2B17"
tags: ['UGT2B17', 'AndrogenMetabolism', 'ProstateCancer', 'DrugMetabolism', 'GeneticPolymorphisms', 'HormoneTherapy', 'AntiAndrogenTherapy', 'DrugResponseVariability']
---

# Gene UGT2B17

## Information

- **Genetic Position**: Chromosome 4
- **Pathology**: UGT2B17 is associated with the metabolism of androgen hormones, particularly testosterone and dihydrotestosterone.
- **Function**: Encodes an enzyme responsible for glucuronidation, a process that facilitates the elimination of hormones, drugs, and various environmental toxins from the body.

## External IDs and Aliases
- **Gene**: UGT2B17
- **Genomic Location**: NC_000004.12 (9969595..9985405, complement)
- **Aliases**: UDP glucuronosyltransferase family 2 member B17, UDP glucuronosyltransferase 2 family, polypeptide B17, UGT2B28

## External Sites
- **HGNC**: 12586
- **NCBI Entrez**: 7363
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000138685
- **OMIM**: 606421
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: P16662

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several variants that can cause changes in amino acid sequence. Some of the variants are mentioned below with their corresponding dbSNP IDs and mutation types.

| Amino Acid Change | dbSNP ID | Mutation Type |
| --- | --- | --- |
| G354T | rs11642015 | Missense |
| G188R | rs2070959 | Missense |
| Q268R | rs7439366 | Missense |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels associated with UGT2B17 gene. Some of them are mentioned below with their corresponding dbSNP IDs.

| Variation | Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| c.*87C>T | SNV | rs11638725 |
| c.*51G>T | SNV | rs17888011 |

## Related Disease
- Prostate cancer
- Androgen-related disorders

## Treatment and Prognosis
Dependent on the stage and type of disease, treatment options may vary. In some cases, anti-androgen therapies or hormone therapies can be used to target the function of UGT2B17 enzyme. It is important to note that prognosis may vary by individual and is difficult to predict.

## Drug Response
There are some drugs that are metabolized by UGT2B17 enzyme. Therefore, not all individuals may respond similarly to a given drug based on variations in their UGT2B17 gene.

## Related papers
- Subject: Mutations in the UGT2B17 gene in prostate cancer
- Author Name: Wang Y, He Z, Jing Z, Xu C, Wang L, Jiang X, Jiang H
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/1476-4598-9-1)

- Subject: Genetic Polymorphisms in the drug metabolizing Enzyme Uridine Diphosphate Glucuronosyltransferase 2B17 and Prostate Cancer Risk
- Author Name: Philip W. Kantoff, Kathryn L. Pennington, Jennifer E. Ross, Shumei Chen, Masciangelo Vittoria, Meredith B. Pomerantz, Andrew P. Mucci, Edward A. Gaziano, James P. Giovannucci, Lorelei A. Mucci
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-07-4865)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**