---
title: "SOD1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene SOD1"
tags: ['SOD1', 'ALS', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorder', 'Mutation', 'Enzyme', 'Riluzole', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about gene SOD1

## Genetic Position
The SOD1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 21 (21q22.11).

## Pathology
Mutations in the SOD1 gene have been associated with familial forms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), which is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that affects motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord.

## Function
The SOD1 gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1). This enzyme helps to protect cells from damage caused by reactive oxygen species (ROS) - by converting the superoxide radical into either oxygen or hydrogen peroxide.

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- HGNC: 11185
- NCBI Entrez: 6647
- Ensembl: ENSG00000142168
- OMIM: 147450
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P00441
- Aliases: ALS1, ALS1Q, hSod1

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
Some of the AA mutations in SOD1 gene that are associated with ALS are:
- A4V (rs121912834)
- G93A (rs121912818)
- H46R (rs80356792)
- I113T (rs74315417)
- V148G (rs28933388)
- L84V (rs397514610)

Mutation Type:
- Missense: Changes one AA to another.
- Frameshift: An insertion or deletion mutation that shifts the reading frame of the genetic material and changes all downstream AA.
- Nonsense: Changes an AA-coding codon to a stop codon, resulting in premature termination of the protein.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several SOD1 somatic mutations associated with various cancer types, such as non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
- S78T (rs758989291)
- D90E (rs398122216)
- G93C (rs200536002)
- L38V (rs376595521)

## Related Disease
Mutations in the SOD1 gene are associated with familial forms of ALS, which is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive degeneration of motor neurons that control voluntary muscle movement. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for ALS, and treatment aims to relieve symptoms, slow down the disease, and improve quality of life. The prognosis for individuals with ALS is generally poor, with most cases resulting in death within 2-5 years of diagnosis.

## Drug Response
Various drugs have been tested for ALS treatment, but none have been found to significantly slow down the disease. Riluzole is the only FDA-approved drug for ALS treatment which increases survival rate by a few months on average.

## References
- Rosen, D. R., et al. (1993). “Mutations in Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase gene are associated with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis”. Nature, 362(6415), 59–62. doi:10.1038/362059a0.
- The SOD1 gene page on Genecards: [Click](https://www.genecards.org/cgi-bin/carddisp.pl?gene=SOD1.)
- The SOD1 gene page on OMIM: [Click](https://www.omim.org/entry/147450.)
- The SOD1 gene page on UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/P00441.)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**