---
title: "MAP2K1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: MAP2K1 "
tags: ['MAP2K1', 'MEK1', 'cancer', 'MAPK/ERK', 'targetedtherapy', 'geneticdisorders', 'somaticmutations', 'drugresponse']
---

# Gene Information: MAP2K1 

## Genetic Position: 

The MAP2K1 gene is located on chromosome 15 (15q22.1) and spans 17.92 kilobases (kb) on the genomic DNA.

## Pathology and Function: 

The MAP2K1 gene encodes a protein known as mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1 (MEK1) which plays an important role in the regulation of cell growth, differentiation, and survival by activating the MAPK/ERK signaling pathway. Dysregulation of this pathway has been implicated in various cancers and developmental disorders. The MAP2K1 gene has been associated with various cancers, including lung cancer, pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, and melanoma.

## External IDs and Aliases: 

- HGNC ID: 6840 
- NCBI Entrez ID: 5604 
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000141510 
- OMIM ID: 176872 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q02750 
- Aliases: MEK1, MAPKK1, PRKMK1 

## AA Mutation List (with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID) 

Some of the common amino acid (AA) changes in the MAP2K1 gene associated with cancer include:

- Q56P (Missense; dbSNP ID: rs121434568)
- P124S (Missense; dbSNP ID: rs121909202)
- K57_N62 del (In-frame deletion; dbSNP ID: rs756693769)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels (with dbSNP ID)

Some of the common somatic SNVs/InDels in the MAP2K1 gene associated with cancer include:

- c.194A>T (Missense; dbSNP ID: rs397507343)
- c.143_145delTCA (In-frame deletion; dbSNP ID: rs201832967)
- c.166A>G (Missense; dbSNP ID: rs28933405)

## Related Diseases: 

Diseases associated with the MAP2K1 gene include cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome (CFC), a rare genetic disorder characterized by heart defects, intellectual disability, and distinctive facial features. The gene has also been implicated in various cancers, including melanoma, lung cancer, pancreatic cancer, and colorectal cancer. 

## Treatment and Prognosis: 

The treatment and prognosis for individuals with mutations in the MAP2K1 gene depend on the specific condition or cancer that they have. Targeted therapies that inhibit the MAPK/ERK signaling pathway, such as trametinib and cobimetinib, have been approved for use in certain cancers with MAP2K1 mutations.

## Drug Response: 

Certain cancers with MAP2K1 mutations may be responsive to targeted therapies that inhibit the MAPK/ERK signaling pathway, such as trametinib and cobimetinib. 

## Related Papers and DOI Links: 

- Canver MC, Bauer DE, Dass A et al. (2014). "Characterization of genomic editing of human genes in vitro." DOI: 10.1038/nature13409. 
- Atefi M, von Euw E, Attar N et al. (2011). "Reversing melanoma cross-resistance to BRAF and MEK inhibitors by co-targeting the AKT/mTOR pathway." DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-11-0707.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**