---
title: "GRM7"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene GRM7"
tags: ['GRM7', 'MetabotropicGlutamateReceptor', 'NeurotransmitterReceptor', 'Schizophrenia', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'MissenseMutations', 'GeneticEpidemiology']
---

# Information about Gene GRM7

## Gene Description
- **Gene Symbol:** GRM7
- **Gene Name:** Glutamate Metabotropic Receptor 7
- **Function:** The GRM7 gene encodes a member of the metabotropic glutamate receptor family. The protein functions as a neurotransmitter receptor in the central nervous system and has been associated with modulation of synaptic plasticity.

## Genomic Information
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 4549
    - NCBI Entrez: 2918
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000188486
    - OMIM: 604102
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O15303
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome: 3; Location: 3p26.1
- **Aliases:** MGLUR7, GPRC1G

## Mutations
- **AA Mutation List:**

|Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|--------|-------------|--------|
|p.Arg550Cys|Missense Mutations|rs3745628|
|p.Ser28Trp|Missense Mutations|rs34372623|
|p.Arg742His|Missense Mutations|rs17060168|

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:**

|Mutation|dbSNP ID|
|--------|--------|
|c.380T>A|rs546040089|
|c.1834G>A|rs141758577|

## Related Diseases
- GRM7 gene has been associated with several diseases such as:
    - Alcohol Dependence
    - Schizophrenia
    - Autism Spectrum Disorder
    - Major Depressive Disorder
    - Parkinson's Disease

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Not applicable as the gene is not directly linked to a particular disease but its associated diseases can be treated based on standard medical procedures.

## Drug Response
- Drug response related to GRM7 gene are not available as the gene is not directly linked to any disease.

## References
- Tansey, K. E., Cameron, D., Hill, M. J., & Bray, N. J. (2016). “One Size Does Not Fit All”: A Brief Review of Glutamatergic Neuropsychiatric Disorders and Their Treatment. Omics: a journal of integrative biology, 20(11), 683–692. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1089/omi.2016.0159)
- Enoch, M. A., Shen, P. H., & Xu, K. (2006). “Genetic epidemiology of anxiety disorders.” Psychiatry research, 141(1), 11–20. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psychres.2005.04.013)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**