---
title: "ATOH7"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene ATOH7"
tags: ['ATOH7', 'Glaucoma', 'Retina', 'Genetics', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'Research']
---

# Information on Gene ATOH7

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Genetic Position**: ATOH7 is located on Chromosome 10 at position 44,343,823-44,355,849.
- **Pathology**: Mutations in ATOH7 gene are associated with glaucoma, a condition that damages the optic nerves, leading to vision loss and blindness.
- **Function**: This gene is responsible for encoding a protein that plays a critical role in the development of the retina. It helps in the formation of retinal ganglion cells and the establishment of the retinal network. 

## Gene Information
- **Function**: Transcription factor that induces the differentiation of retinal progenitor cells into retinal ganglion cells.
- **Aliases**: Math5, Ath5, BHLHB14
- **External IDs**: 
  - HGNC: 12954
  - NCBI Entrez: 220202
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000109182
  - OMIM: 609875
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60479
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**: 
No known mutations in humans.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: 
Not available.
- **Related Disease**: 
Mutations in ATOH7 gene are associated with Primary Congenital Glaucoma (PCG) and Glaucoma 3A, Primary Open Angle, A (POAGA).
- **Treatment and Prognosis**: 
Currently, there is no cure for glaucoma, and the treatment options focus on reducing intraocular pressure and slowing the progression of the disease. The prognosis depends on the severity of the condition at diagnosis and the effectiveness of the treatment.
- **Drug Response**: 
Several classes of drugs are used to treat glaucoma, including beta-blockers, prostaglandins, alpha-adrenergic agonists, and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. The response to drug treatment varies among patients and depends on the type and stage of glaucoma.
- **Research Papers**:
  - T.E. Scheetz et al. (2006) [Genetic variants in human ATOH7 associated with persistence of fetal ocular vasculature.](https://doi.org/10.1086/502986))
  - R.H. Haddad et al. (2011) [Primary Congenital Glaucoma: A Novel Single-Nucleotide Deletion and Variants in the ATOH7 Gene.](https://doi.org/10.1155/2011/210951))
  - F. Sun et al. (2016) [Genetic testing of 12 genes associated with congenital cataracts in 46 families: Identification of a paradigm shift in the inheritance of congenital cataracts.](https://doi.org/10.3892/mmr.2016.5166))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**