---
title: "RNASEH2A"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: RNASEH2A"
tags: ['RNASEH2A', 'GeneFunction', 'AicardiGoutieresSyndrome', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'AutoimmuneDisorder']
---

# Gene: RNASEH2A

RNASEH2A is a gene that is located on chromosome 19 (chr19:58483513-58488128) and provides instructions for producing the RNase H2A protein. The gene is also known by its aliases as AGS3 and RNH2A.

## Function:
The RNase H2A protein is essential for the proper functioning of cells as it removes RNA primers during DNA replication and repair. RNA primers are short segments of RNA that are used to prime DNA synthesis. The RNase H2A protein specifically recognizes and degrades RNA that is paired with DNA.

## External IDs:
- HGNC: 18151
- NCBI Entrez: 246243
- Ensembl: ENSG00000141837
- OMIM: 610326
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8TEY5

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
- c.49C>T: p.Arg17Cys, rs535164995
- c.201+3A>G: rs45527740
- c.244C>T: p.(Arg82Trp), rs368938566

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- c.49C>T: p.Arg17Cys, rs535164995
- c.67C>A: p.Pro23Gln, rs764144319
- c.67C>T: p.Pro23Ser, rs745903377

## Related disease:
Mutations in the RNASEH2A gene have been associated with Aicardi-Goutières Syndrome (AGS), which is a rare autoimmune disorder affecting the brain and skin. AGS is characterized by chronic inflammation in the brain and skin, resulting in neurological and developmental abnormalities.

## Treatment and prognosis:
Currently, there is no cure for AGS. Treatment mainly focuses on managing symptoms and supporting affected individuals. Prognosis for individuals with AGS can vary greatly depending on the severity of symptoms and the individual's response to treatment.

## Drug response:
There is limited information on drug responses in individuals with mutations in RNASEH2A gene. However, some studies have shown that in vitro treatment with certain antiviral drugs can reduce excess immune response and inflammation in cells with AGS-causing mutations.

## Related papers:
- Crow, Y.J., et al. (2006). RNase H2–linked Aicardi-Goutiéres syndrome: It's not all in the brain. [DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2006.07.012]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2006.07.012)
- Rice, G.I., et al. (2014). Reverse-transcriptase inhibitors in the Aicardi-Goutières syndrome. [DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1406176]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1406176)
- Debyser, Z., et al. (2020). Nuclease-based therapies for AGS and related disorders. [DOI: 10.1016/j.tibtech.2019.05.006]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tibtech.2019.05.006)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**