---
title: "SLC25A22"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: SLC25A22"
tags: ['SLC25A22', 'MitochondrialGlutamateTransporter', 'NEE-MFS', 'COXPD4', 'GeneticInformation', 'Disease', 'Treatment', 'Mutation']
---

## Gene: SLC25A22

### Information
- **Genetic Position:** Chr11:125,512,856-125,564,520
- **Pathology:** Defects in SLC25A22 can cause neonatal epileptic encephalopathy with migrating focal seizures (NEE-MFS) and combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 4 (COXPD4).
- **Function:** SLC25A22 is a mitochondrial glutamate transporter that mediates the transport of glutamate across the mitochondrial inner membrane.
- **Aliases:** GC1, GC1q, GC1q1, PNC1, Solute Carrier Family 25 Member 22
- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: HGNC:20655
    - NCBI Entrez: 79012
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000149042
    - OMIM: 609302
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BSJ8

### Mutations
- **AA mutation list:** [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/Q9BSJ8#mutations)
- **Mutation type with dbSNP ID:** Missense variants, Frameshift variants, Nonsense variants, Splice variants
- **somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No available information.

### Related disease
- Defects in SLC25A22 can cause neonatal epileptic encephalopathy with migrating focal seizures (NEE-MFS) and combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 4 (COXPD4).

### Treatment and prognosis
- No specific treatment or cure is available for NEE-MFS or COXPD4. Treatment is primarily symptomatic and involves anticonvulsant medication, ketogenic diet, and other supportive treatments.

### Drug response
- No available information.

### References
- Ng, Y. S., & Turnbull, D. M. (2016). Mitochondrial disease: genetics and management. Journal of neurology, 263(9), 179-191. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00415-015-7935-1)
- Rahman, S., & Rahman, J. (2011). Mitochondrial medicine in the omics era. The Lancet, 377(9768), 1363-1375. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(10)61928-1)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**