---
title: "HADHA"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene HADHA"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'HADHA', 'FattyAcidOxidation', 'TrifunctionalProteinDeficiency', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'GeneVariations', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene HADHA

## Gene Information
- **Function for gene**: HADHA (hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase trifunctional multienzyme complex subunit alpha) gene codes for a protein that is involved in fatty acid oxidation.
- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases**: 
    - Gene ID: 3030
    - Genomic Location: Chromosome 2q23.3
    - Aliases: HADH, ECHD, FASPS, LCEH

## Genomic Variations
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**: 
    - p.Ile323Met Ins(2) - rs121434601
    - p.Met605Thr - rs28941768
    - p.Arg412Pro - rs28941769
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: None reported so far.

## Related Diseases
- Disorders associated with HADHA gene mutations include:
    - Trifunctional protein deficiency - This is a rare disorder that affects the breakdown of fats for energy and results in serious health problems.
    
## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is currently no cure for trifunctional protein deficiency, but treatment options include dietary management and medications to manage symptoms.
- The prognosis for this disorder is variable and depends on the severity of symptoms and response to treatment.

## Drug Response
- There is currently no specific drug available for the treatment of trifunctional protein deficiency, but some patients may be prescribed medications to manage symptoms.

## External Sites
- HGNC: 4837
- NCBI Entrez: 3030
- Ensembl: ENSG00000137463
- OMIM: 600890 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P40939

## References
- Gillingham, M. B., & Harding, C. O. (2018). Trifunctional Protein Deficiency. In GeneReviews® [Internet]. University of Washington, Seattle.
- HADHA Gene - GeneCards | HADH Protein | HADH Antibody. (n.d.). Retrieved from [Click](https://www.genecards.org/cgi-bin/carddisp.pl?gene=HADHA)
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot. (2020). HADHA_HUMAN.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**