---
title: "GJA3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene GJA3"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'GeneGJA3', 'CongenitalCataracts', 'GapJunctionProteins', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about Gene GJA3

## Gene position, pathology and function
- Gene: GJA3 (Gap Junction Protein Alpha 3)
- Chromosome location: 13q12.11
- Pathology: Mutations in GJA3 gene are associated with Multiple Types of Congenital Cataracts. 
- Function: GJA3 is a member of the connexin gene family that encodes gap junction proteins. These proteins form channels between adjacent cells and allow the exchange of small molecules and ions, enabling intercellular communication.

## External IDs, Aliases and Genomic location
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 4273 
    - NCBI Entrez: 2702 
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000132607 
    - OMIM: 121015 
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P28230 
- Aliases: CAE2, CTRCT13, GJA1, CTRCT6
- Genomic location: NC_000013.11 (36718504..36730771)

## AA Mutation list and Mutation type with dbSNP ID
- Mutation type: Missense
- AA mutation list:
    - p.Ile48Asn with dbSNP ID rs104894039
    - p.Gln56* with dbSNP ID rs104893993
    - p.Val64Leu with dbSNP ID rs104893999
    - p.Tyr64Cys with dbSNP ID rs104894043

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID for GJA3 gene.

## Related Disease
GJA3 mutations are associated with Congenital Cataracts. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
Surgery is the common treatment for Congenital Cataracts. The prognosis depends on the type, size, and location of the cataract.

## Drug Response
There is no known drug for the treatment of Congenital Cataracts caused by GJA3 mutations. 

## Related Papers
- Subject: Mutations in GJA3 associated with congenital cataract and microcornea.
  - DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9394(02)01251-9
  - Author Name: Vanita, Vipin; Singh, Jai Rup; Singh, Dharmendra; Varon, Robert; Sperling, Karin
- Subject: Novel mutation in GJA3 associated with autosomal dominant congenital nuclear cataract in a Chinese family.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s10048-006-0082-0
  - Author Name: Zheng, Jianjun; Yang, Huasheng; Shang, Xuefang; Li, Shujing; Mu, Jianliang.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**