---
title: "GATAD2B"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information"
tags: ['GATAD2B', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticDisorders', 'IntellectualDisability', 'ChromatinRemodeling', 'HistoneDeacetylation', 'MissenseMutations', 'SomaticSNVs']
---

# Gene Information

### Gene GATAD2B

`GATAD2B` is a gene that is located on the chromosome 1 at the position 1p36.11. It is also known as `MGC5728, FLJ20152, MGC3003, p66beta, and KIAA0667`.

### Function

`GATAD2B` encodes a protein named `GATA zinc finger domain-containing protein 2B`, which plays a role in regulating gene expression through chromatin remodeling and histone deacetylation. It binds to components of the NuRD (nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase) complex and functions as a transcription repressor.

### External IDs 

- HGNC: 28743
- NCBI Entrez: 57461
- Ensembl: ENSG00000133231
- OMIM: 608573
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q7L5N1

### Mutations

`GATAD2B` has been associated with several genetic disorders, including developmental delay and intellectual disability. Here is a list of missense mutations in `GATAD2B` along with their mutation type and dbSNP ID:

| Amino Acid Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|------------------|---------------|----------|
| R26W             | Missense       | rs749530354 |
| C196R            | Missense       | rs752527764 |
| W310C            | Missense       | rs753968179 |
| C395Y            | Missense       | rs758558913 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels

There are several somatic SNVs/InDels in `GATAD2B` that have been reported in various studies. Here are a few of them, with their dbSNP ID:

- rs376050052
- rs537859609
- rs555027377

### Related Disease

Mutations in the `GATAD2B` gene have been linked to several genetic disorders, including:
- Autosomal dominant intellectual disability 37 (MIM: 616432)
- Goldberg-Shprintzen megacolon syndrome (MIM: 609460)

### Treatment and Prognosis

There is no specific treatment for intellectual disability caused by mutations in the `GATAD2B` gene. Treatment is symptomatic and aimed at improving the patient's quality of life. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the intellectual disability.

### Drug Response

There is currently no information available regarding drug responses related to mutations in the `GATAD2B` gene.

### Related Papers

- Subject: Pathogenic Variants in GATAD2B Cause Developmental Delay and Intellectual Disability
- Author: Shixiu Feng, Jikui Wang, et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2016.12.013)

- Subject: Novel GATAD2B mutations cause intellectual disability and epilepsy with variable severity
- Author: Yang Wu, Zhu-Qing Li, et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/cge.12845)

- Subject: Rare variants in GATAD2B responsible for cognitive impairment syndromes
- Author: Kristian Laulund Fobian, and Qihua Tan
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ebiom.2019.02.038)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**