---
title: "SLC19A3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: SLC19A3"
tags: ['SLC19A3', 'Thiamine', 'TRMA', 'Anemia', 'Genetics', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'NeurodevelopmentalDelay']
---

# Gene Information: SLC19A3

## Genetic Position
The SLC19A3 gene is located on chromosome 2, specifically at the band 2q37.3.

## Pathology
Mutations in the SLC19A3 gene are associated with thiamine-responsive megaloblastic anemia syndrome (TRMA). This is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that affects the pancreas, blood, and nervous system. Individuals with TRMA have a deficiency of thiamine (vitamin B1), which is important for energy metabolism, leading to megaloblastic anemia, diabetes mellitus, and sensorineural deafness.

## Function
The SLC19A3 gene encodes for a thiamine transporter protein that mediates transport of thiamine into cells. This protein is expressed in various tissues, including the pancreas, liver, heart, and brain.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 11006
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 65059
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000108655
- OMIM ID: 607483
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9H015
- Aliases: TRMA, FLJ34477

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.139 C>T (p.Pro47Leu) rs113341771
- c.574 C>T (p.Ala192Val) rs113869587

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No known somatic mutations have been recorded for the SLC19A3 gene.

## Related Disease
Thiamine-responsive megaloblastic anemia syndrome (TRMA) is associated with mutations in the SLC19A3 gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Thiamine supplementation is the mainstay of treatment for individuals with TRMA. With proper treatment, patients can have improved growth and motor function, and may also have improved blood counts. However, some may have residual neurodevelopmental delays despite appropriate supplementation.

## Drug Response
There is no known drug response associated with the SLC19A3 gene.

## Related Papers
- Title: Thiamine transporter gene expression and thiamine uptake in human colonic epithelial cells. DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2020.104819
  - Author: Robert J.J. Strijbosch et al.
  - PMID: 33096271
- Title: Thiamine-responsive megaloblastic anemia: identification of novel compound heterozygotes and mutation update. DOI: 10.1111/ijlh.12029
  - Author: Seyed Hassan Tonekaboni et al.
  - PMID: 23621091

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**