---
title: "NIPA2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene NIPA2"
tags: ['NIPA2', 'HereditarySpasticParaplegia', 'MagnesiumTransporter', 'NeuronalDevelopment', 'SynapticPlasticity', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene NIPA2

### Pathology
NIPA2 (non-imprinted in Prader-Willi/Angelman syndrome 2) is a gene located in chromosome 15q11.2-q13, which is involved in neuronal development and synaptic functions. Mutations in the NIPA2 gene have been associated with autosomal recessive hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP). HSP is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive lower limb spasticity and weakness.

### Function
The NIPA2 gene encodes a magnesium transporter protein, critical for modulating synaptic plasticity and physiological Mg2+ homeostasis in neurons.

### External IDs and Aliases
* HGNC: 14517
* NCBI Entrez: 123606
* Ensembl: ENSG00000188517
* OMIM: 608145
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H2G9
* Aliases: SPG6, C15orf12

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|T44M|Missense|rs199510521|
|T118M|Missense|rs398123878|
|L282L|Synonymous|rs117705784|
|P340L|Missense|rs398123879|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic variants for NIPA2 gene.

### Related Disease
NIPA2 mutations have been associated with Autosomal Recessive Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Management of HSP is typically focused on symptom relief with muscle relaxants and physical therapy. The prognosis for individuals affected by HSP varies widely depending on the extent of progression and severity of symptoms.

### Drug Response
There is no information available regarding the drug response for NIPA2 gene mutations.

#### Related Papers
* **Subject:** NIPA2 Gene in Autopsied Brain Tissues from Sporadic Cases of Corticobasal Degeneration: NIPA2-related neuronal diseases from sporadic tauopathies? 
* **Author:** Satoshi Kamei, et al. 
* **DOI:** 10.1007/s00401-010-0694-0

* **Subject:** Detection of a Rare NIPA2 Mutation (p.Thr44Met) in a Chinese Patient With Spastic Paraplegia 6B (SPG6B). 
* **Author:** Fen Wang, et al. 
* **DOI:** 10.3389/fneur.2019.01047

* **Subject:** Association of NIPA1 and NIPA2 with susceptibility to neuropsychiatric disorders. 
* **Author:** Ting Liu, et al. 
* **DOI:** 10.1016/j.neulet.2019.06.005

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**