---
title: "NEDD4"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene NEDD4"
tags: ['GeneNEDD4', 'E3UbiquitinLigase', 'Cancer', 'NeurologicalDiseases', 'CardiovascularDiseases', 'MissenseMutation', 'BreastCancer', 'ProstateCancer']
---

# Information on Gene NEDD4

## Genetic Position

The NEDD4 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 15 (15q21.3).

## Pathology and Function

The NEDD4 gene encodes for NEDD4, which is an E3 ubiquitin ligase involved in the regulation of endocytosis, protein sorting, and cytoskeletal dynamics. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the development of cancer, particularly in breast, prostate, and lung. Additionally, NEDD4 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of neurological and cardiovascular diseases.

## Gene External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 7651
- NCBI Entrez: 23327
- Ensembl: ENSG00000034053
- OMIM: 601594
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96PU5

Aliases:

- NEDD4-1
- NEDD4A
- Rsp5 ubiquitin-protein ligase NEDD4

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

AA mutation list:

- Arg45His
- Ile425Met
- Leu480Met
- Arg651Cys

Mutation types:

- Missense

dbSNP ID:

- rs139428292
- rs200275201
- rs202043367
- rs150468625

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

dbSNP ID:

- rs747022334

## Related Disease

- Breast cancer
- Prostate cancer
- Lung cancer
- Epilepsy
- Parkinson's Disease
- Hypertension

## Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment for NEDD4 related diseases is dependent on the specific disease and symptoms. Prognosis is generally poor for cancer.

## Drug Response

There is limited information on drug response specific to NEDD4 related diseases.

## Related Papers

- Author name: Xu J, Li H
  - [DOI link]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopha.2019.01.014))
- Author name: Ji Y, Liu W
  - [DOI link]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/1759-7714.12921))
- Author name: Efthymiou C, et al.
  - [DOI link]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-89771-9))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**