---
title: "ALG10"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: ALG10"
tags: ['ALG10', 'Nlinkedglycosylation', 'CongenitalDisordersofGlycosylation', 'GeneticMutation', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment', 'GeneticInformation', 'ResearchPapers']
---

## Gene: ALG10

### Function:
The ALG10 gene encodes a member of the alpha-1,2-mannosyltransferase family. This enzyme is responsible for adding the final alpha-1,2-linked mannose to the Man9-GlcNAc2-PP-dolichol intermediate during N-linked glycosylation.

### External IDs:
- Genomic location: Chromosome 12q24.11
- NCBI Entrez ID: 55009
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000135728
- HGNC ID: 36407
- OMIM ID: 603864
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q96Q42

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
- c.1139G>A (p.Gly380Asp) - rs76723650
- c.346G>A (p.Gly116Ser) - rs34907375
- c.28A>G (p.Asp10Gly) - rs778701698

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
None reported.

### Related Disease:
Defects in the ALG10 gene have been implicated in causing congenital disorder of glycosylation type I by interfering with proper N-linked glycosylation.

### Treatment and Prognosis:
There is no known cure for congenital disorders of glycosylation and treatment is usually symptomatic, focusing on management of the symptoms. The prognosis depends on the severity of the disorder.

### Drug Response:
There are currently no drugs targeting specifically the ALG10 gene.

### Related Papers:
- Author: Cline A, Gao H, Cox AD
  - Title: Identification of a novel family of endoplasmic reticulum resident alpha1,2-mannosyltransferases required for N-glycan maturation.
  - Journal: Glycobiology.
  - DOI: 10.1093/glycob/cwn124
- Author: Jaeken J, Matthijs G
  - Title: Congenital disorders of glycosylation: a rapidly expanding disease family.
  - Journal: Annual review of genomics and human genetics.
  - DOI: 10.1146/annurev.genom.1.1.261

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**