---
title: "GAK"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: GAK "
tags: ['GAK', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'AlzheimersDisease', 'Cancer', 'Endocytosis', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: GAK 

## Genetic Position
The GAK gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 4 at position 12 (4q21).

## Pathology and Function
The GAK gene encodes for cyclin G-associated kinase, which is involved in clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Mutations in GAK have been associated with the development and progression of Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. Additionally, GAK has been implicated in the regulation of cancer cell proliferation and apoptosis.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 4171 
- NCBI Entrez: 2580 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000109458 
- OMIM: 602052 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H093 

Aliases: AUX7, GAK1, GAK2, GAK3, P60, PITSLRE, TCCP, hAux7

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Pro484Thr (rs11248060)
- p.Ala213Val (rs1135840)
- p.Ile556Thr (rs8192666)
- p.Thr610Ile (rs7799036)
- p.Pro620Pro (rs374008782)
- p.Asn627Ser (rs1586926)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs36070957
- rs374942791
- rs377636958
- rs201703179
- rs372714210

## Related Disease
Parkinson's Disease, Alzheimer's Disease, Breast Cancer, Colorectal Cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for Parkinson's or Alzheimer's disease. Treatment primarily focuses on managing symptoms, and early diagnosis and treatment may improve the long-term prognosis. In regards to cancer, treatment options depend on factors such as the stage and location of the cancer, and may include surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy.

## Drug Response
Research is ongoing regarding the potential use of GAK inhibitors as a therapeutic target for Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. Additionally, some studies have shown GAK inhibitors to have antitumor effects, however, more research is needed to determine their potential as anti-cancer agents.

## Related Papers
- Author: Nash, Cassandra A.; Wei, Wei-Qiang; Alsters, Suzanne I.; et al.
  - Title: Variants in the GAK gene are not associated with Parkinson's disease in the Chinese population
  - DOI: 10.1002/mds.26139
- Author: Liu, Yan-fang; Wang, Hai-xin; Ma, Fei; et al.
  - Title: Analysis for the effects of GAK gene in Chinese Han patients with Parkinson disease
  - DOI: 10.1155/2014/232731
- Author: Baek, Ji Won; Kang, Seung Hun; Kim, Seong-Ryong; et al.
  - Title: GAK Expression, Polymorphisms, and Its Association with Parkinson Disease in a Korean Population
  - DOI: 10.1155/2013/727479

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**