---
title: "MED13"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for MED13"
tags: ['MED13', 'MediatorComplex', 'TranscriptionRegulation', 'GeneticMutations', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Cancer', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'HaploinsufficiencySyndrome']
---

# Gene Information for MED13

## Gene Function

MED13 is a subunit of the Mediator complex, a multi-protein complex that functions as a regulator of eukaryotic transcription. MED13 acts as a coactivator of RNA polymerase II (pol II) transcription by regulating the activity of transcriptional activators and repressors.

## External IDs, Genomic Location, and Aliases

- External IDs: HGNC:15630, NCBI Entrez Gene:9968, Ensembl:ENSG00000128272, OMIM: 603747, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60244
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 17p11.2
- Aliases: ARC230, CRSP9, DRIP205, HSPC046, KIAA1446, MED13L, TRAP220

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID

MED13 has various single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that result in amino acid changes. Some common SNPs that cause amino acid substitution in the protein are:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|----------|
| R2064C      | Missense      | rs1478486 |
| T2468M      | Missense      | rs35511498|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

MED13 is frequently mutated in many different cancers. Some common somatic SNVs/InDels in MED13 include:

- c.4981G>A (p.R1661Q); rs200641630
- c.2054C>G (p.Pro685Arg); rs200804334
- c.6127G>A (p.E2043K); rs148391466

## Related Diseases

Mutations in MED13 are associated with several diseases including Cardio-facio-cutaneous syndrome and intellectual disability.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no known cure for diseases associated with MED13 mutations. Treatment is generally symptomatic and aimed at managing specific symptoms and complications. The prognosis of the disease depends on the specific phenotype and clinical manifestations of each individual.

## Drug Response

There is currently no specific drug or therapy for diseases associated with MED13 mutations.

## Related Papers

- Subject: MED13L haploinsufficiency syndrome: A review and case series.
  Author: Lozano R et al.
  DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.c.31675
  
- Subject: MED13L-related intellectual disability: involvement of missense variants and delineation of the phenotype.
  Author: Sirmaci A et al.
  DOI: 10.1002/humu.23213

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**