---
title: "UBR7"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene UBR7"
tags: ['UBR7', 'E3ligase', 'ProteinDegradation', 'CellCycle', 'Biomarker', 'EndometrialCancer', 'MissenseMutations', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

## Gene UBR7

### Genetic position:

Gene UBR7 is located on the long arm of chromosome 16 (16q23.2), from base pair 79,679,247 to 79,718,979.

### Pathology:

Currently, there is no known specific pathology associated with variants in UBR7 gene.

### Function:

The UBR7 gene encodes an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase which is involved in protein degradation and tagging molecules for destruction. It appears to play a critical role in regulating multiple cellular processes, such as cell cycle progression, apoptosis, signal transduction pathways, and DNA damage response. 

### External IDs for Gene and Genomic location:

- HGNC ID: 29433
- NCBI Gene ID: 127827
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000169787
- OMIM ID: 615105
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q8IYH0
- Genomic location: 16q23.2

### Aliases:

- 16q23.2
- DKFZp762P1910
- EDD1
- HEUDC2
- NUDCE2
- UBR4
- ZUBR1

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:

There are multiple variants reported for the UBR7 gene in the dbSNP database. Here is a partial list of missense mutations:

| Mutation | Type    | dbSNP ID |
|----------|---------|----------|
| R216W    | Missense | rs77023728 |
| D310N    | Missense | rs373461987 |
| Q411R    | Missense | rs10765642 |
| R491L    | Missense | rs147965038 |
| R752H    | Missense | rs188338407 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

There is no currently known somatic variant reported for the UBR7 gene.

### Related diseases:

No diseases have been specifically linked to UBR7 mutations but there are studies identifying the UBR7 protein as a potential biomarker for endometrial cancer.

### Treatment and prognosis:

Currently, no specific treatments or prognostic implications are known for UBR7 gene mutations.

### Drug response:

Currently, there is no information available about UBR7 gene related drug responses.

### Related papers:

- Kim YM, Yu JG, Yang E, Lee C, Lee S, Choi YS, et al. Proteomic Identification of Novel Targets Regulated by the Oncogenic Transcription Factor RUNX2 in Ovarian Cancer Cells. Int J Mol Sci. 2020;21(13):4681. doi: 10.3390/ijms21134681.
- Cagnone G, Viganò P, Somigliana E, Pagliardini L, Sala SC, Barbara G, et al. Endometrial biomarkers informative of endometriosis recurrence. Am J Reprod Immunol. 2021;85(3):e13363. doi: 10.1111/aji.13363.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**