---
title: "AP5Z1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene Information"
tags: ['AP5Z1', 'ClathrinCoatedVesicles', 'EndocyticAccessoryProteins', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'SynonymousMutation', 'AgeAtMenarche', 'AutismSpectrumDisorders']
---

### Gene Information

Gene: AP5Z1

Pathology: No known pathological associations

Function: The protein encoded by AP5Z1 gene is involved in the formation of clathrin-coated vesicles and binds endocytic accessory proteins via its C-terminus.

### External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 25807
- Entrez Gene: 130383
- Ensembl: ENSG00000162191
- OMIM: -
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H9A7

Aliases: 
- AP-5 complex subunit zeta-1
- KIAA0076

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are some genetic variations reported in the AP5Z1 gene, including missense, nonsense, and synonymous mutations. Below is the list of amino acid (AA) mutations with their mutation type and dbSNP ID if available:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| ----------- | ------------- | -------- |
| p.Thr369Ala | Missense     | rs201780004 |
| p.Arg416*   | Nonsense    | rs201918510 |
| p.Tyr344Tyr | Synonymous | rs764143878 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

No somatic SNVs or InDels of AP5Z1 gene have been reported yet.

### Related Diseases

No known direct association with AP5Z1 gene and any specific disease has been reported.

### Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no specific treatment or prognosis associated with the AP5Z1 gene.

### Drug Response

There is currently no known drug response associated with the AP5Z1 gene.

### Related Papers

- Subject: A large-scale candidate gene association study of age at menarche and age at natural menopause
  - Author: Elks C, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1002312
  - Link: [Click](https://journals.plos.org/plosgenetics/article?id=10.1371/journal.pgen.1002312)
  
- Subject: Performance of a Chromosomal Microarray Analysis for Detection of Pathogenic Copy Number Variants in Children with Autism Spectrum Disorders
  - Author: Walker E, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s11060-016-2240-0
  - Link: [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27620256/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**