---
title: "EFEMP1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene EFEMP1"
tags: ['EFEMP1', 'ExtracellularMatrixProtein', 'TumorSuppressor', 'SomaticMutations', 'DoyneHoneycombRetinalDystrophy', 'CancerTreatment', 'Biomarker', 'RetinalDiseases']
---

## Gene EFEMP1

### Information

EFEMP1 (EGF-containing fibulin-like extracellular matrix protein 1) gene is located on chromosome 2q34. It encodes a secreted glycoprotein that belongs to the fibulin protein family. The EFEMP1 protein contains a fibulin-like domain and an EGF-like domain and functions as an extracellular matrix protein. 

### Function

EFEMP1 is involved in the regulation of cell adhesion, migration, and proliferation and is thought to play a role in the development and maintenance of connective tissues. Additionally, it functions as a tumor suppressor in some cancers, while in others, it may act as an oncogene.

### External IDs and Aliases

External IDs for this gene include HGNC:3172, NCBI Entrez:2202, Ensembl:ENSG00000137816, OMIM:601548, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:Q12805. Aliases for EFEMP1 gene include:

- FBLN-3
- Doyne honeycomb retinal dystrophy protein
- DRAD
- MGC133292

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

EFEMP1 is associated with several genetic variations and mutations. Some of the critical alterations in the EFEMP1 sequence are:

- R345W (rs61750445)
- R345Q (rs121912672)
- A196T (rs139976604)
- V75D (rs140978614)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

Somatic mutations in EFEMP1 gene are observed in several types of cancers. Some of the significant SNVs/InDels include:

- c.1043G>A (rs374999998)
- c.931C>T

### Related Diseases

Mutations in EFEMP1 gene are associated with several diseases including:

- Doyne Honeycomb Retinal Dystrophy (DHRD)
- Age-related macular degeneration (AMD)
- Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE)
- Various cancers such as glioblastoma, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, and ovarian cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis

Due to the role it plays in different diseases, EFEMP1 can serve as a significant target for treatment. However, there are no specific treatment procedures currently available for diseases associated with EFEMP1. The prognosis may vary depending on the disease and genetic mutation type.

### Drug Response

Studies have shown that some medications such as Vorinostat and Entinostat have anti-tumor activity on EFEMP1-mutated pancreatic cancer cells.

### Related Papers

Some of the latest research papers on EFEMP1 gene include:

- **Subject:** EFEMP1 as a therapeutic target for cancer treatment. 
**Author:** Huo Z, et al. 
**DOI:** 10.1155/2020/5762403

- **Subject:** EFEMP1 as a biomarker for diagnosis and progression of retinal diseases.
**Author:** Kikanjuwa N, et al. 
**DOI:** 10.2147/OPTH.S282329

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**