---
title: "AMH"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene AMH"
tags: ['AMHgene', 'PersistentMüllerianDuctSyndrome', 'TesticularRegressionSyndrome', 'AntiMüllerianHormone', 'SertoliCells', 'TestosteroneTherapy', 'ReproductiveSystem', 'Mutation']
---

# Information on Gene AMH

## Position
The AMH gene is located on the **19p13.3** position of chromosome 19.

## Pathology
Mutations in the AMH gene can result in the occurrence of **persistent Müllerian duct syndrome** (PMDS) and **testicular regression syndrome** (TRS) in both males and females. PMDS results from the failure of the Müllerian duct regression in males leading to the persistence of the uterus, fallopian tube, and the upper part of the vagina. TRS occurs when the fetal gonads do not develop into testes leading to ambiguous genitalia or female genitalia despite the presence of XY chromosomes.

## Function
The AMH gene provides instructions to produce the **anti-müllerian hormone (AMH)**. This hormone plays a crucial role in the development of the reproductive system in males. In males, the AMH produced by the Sertoli cells of the testes leads to the regression of Müllerian ducts, which would develop into the uterus and fallopian tube. In females, AMH is also produced but in smaller quantities and is involved in the regulation of folliculogenesis.

## External IDs & Aliases
- HGNC: 454
- NCBI Entrez: 268
- Ensembl: ENSG00000125378
- OMIM: 600957
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P03971
- Aliases: MIS, MIF, Muellerian-inhibiting substance, anti-Mullerian hormone

## AA mutations and mutation types with dbSNP ID
- c.271G>A (p.Arg91His) - rs1045395
- c.234G>A (p.Arg78Gln) - rs1045397
- c.600C>T (p.Arg200Cys) - rs121908710

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs886040215
- rs879255139
- rs796414225

## Related diseases
- Persistent Müllerian duct syndrome (PMDS)
- Testicular regression syndrome (TRS)

## Treatment and prognosis
The treatment for PMDS and TRS typically involves surgical removal of the undeveloped reproductive organs and the administration of testosterone therapy to facilitate virilization in affected males. The prognosis of individuals with AMH gene mutations varies depending on the severity of the condition and the response to treatment.

## Drug response
There is currently no drug designed to target AMH gene mutations. However, the administration of testosterone therapy has shown significant improvement in virilization and long-term outcomes of affected individuals.

## Related papers
- [Clinical and genetic characterization of six cases with persistent Müllerian duct syndrome]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0022-5347(05)62559-X)) - Cutolo et al., Journal of Urology 2004
- [Anti-müllerian hormone: a predictor of cumulative live-birth rate in assisted reproduction?]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12610-015-0315-9)) - Oudshoorn et al., Journal of Assisted Reproduction and Genetics 2015.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**