---
title: "KCNQ1OT1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: KCNQ1OT1"
tags: ['KCNQ1OT1', 'lncRNA', 'geneexpression', 'cancer', 'BeckwithWiedemannsyndrome', 'WilmsTumor', 'prognosis', 'drugresponse']
---

## Gene: KCNQ1OT1

### Genetic Position:
KCNQ1OT1 is a gene located on chromosome 11p15.5. It is a long non-coding RNA gene (lncRNA) which spans approximately 270 kb genomic region.

### Pathology:
KCNQ1OT1 gene is associated with several disorders including Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, Wilms tumor, and other cancers. Altered expression of KCNQ1OT1 has been observed in various cancer types.

### Function:
KCNQ1OT1 gene is an antisense transcript of the KCNQ1 gene and it regulates the imprinting of KCNQ1 gene. It also plays a role in the regulation of gene expression in normal development, glucose metabolism, and cancer.

### External IDs:
- HGNC: 28316
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 100131329
- Ensembl: ENSG00000225492
- OMIM: 604115
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: NA

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
No amino acid (AA) mutations for KCNQ1OT1 gene have been reported, as it is a non-coding gene.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
Somatic SNVs/InDels for KCNQ1OT1 gene have not been reported, but alterations in its expression have been found in various cancer types.

### Related Disease:
KCNQ1OT1 gene has been implicated in the pathology of several disorders, including:
- Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome
- Wilms tumor
- Multiple cancer types (e.g., breast cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, lung cancer, etc.)

### Treatment and Prognosis:
There is no specific treatment available for KCNQ1OT1-associated disorders. However, KCNQ1OT1 can be a potential target for cancer therapy. The prognosis of the diseases associated with KCNQ1OT1 depends on the specific disorder and its severity.

### Drug Response:
No specific drug response related to KCNQ1OT1 gene has been reported yet.

### Related papers:
- Subject: KCNQ1OT1 lncRNA in cancer.
- Author: Mohamed HE, Abd-El-Fattah AA.
- DOI links: [10.1080/07357907.2021.1895099](https://doi.org/10.1080/07357907.2021.1895099))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**