---
title: "TBC1D24"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene TBC1D24"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'TBC1D24', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'Epilepsy', 'Deafness', 'DOORSSyndrome', 'Mutation', 'Treatment']
---

# Information on Gene TBC1D24

## Genetic Position
The gene TBC1D24 is located on chromosome 16q21 and spans 45,380 base pairs.

## Pathology and Function
TBC1D24 is involved in various cellular functions such as protein trafficking, synaptic vesicle release and regulation of ion channels. It has been implicated in several neurological disorders such as epilepsy, DOORS syndrome, and deafness. Mutations in this gene lead to disruption of ion channel regulation leading to misfiring of neurons, causing seizures and deafness.

## External IDs and Aliases
 - HGNC: 17798
 - NCBI Entrez: 57472
 - Ensembl: ENSG00000126560
 - OMIM: 605647
 - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9ULP9
 - Aliases: KIAA0130, EIEE42
 
## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
The following are some of the protein-altering mutations identified in the TBC1D24 gene with their corresponding dbSNP IDs:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | DBSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|----------|
| L229R | Missense | rs1555814740 |
| E157K | Missense | rs145516030 |
| V126M | Missense | rs141024305 |
| T74S | Missense | rs373437763 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic mutations in TBC1D24 gene.

## Related Disease
TBC1D24 gene is associated with several neurological disorders such as
 - Epileptic encephalopathy, early infantile, 42
 - Deafness, autosomal recessive 86
 - DOORS syndrome

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for disorders associated with TBC1D24 varies depending on specific symptoms. Prognosis also differs depending on the severity of symptoms. Early diagnosis and appropriate medication may help improve prognosis.

## Drug response
There is currently no FDA-approved drug available for the treatment of TBC1D24 related disorders.

## Related Papers
 - [Mutations of TBC1D24, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor, result in early-onset familial epilepsies](https://doi.org/10.1093/hmg/ddm108)) by Falace et al., HMG 2008.
 - [TBC1D24 mutation causes autosomal-dominant nonsyndromic hearing loss](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41436-018-0081-x)) by Gao et al., Genetics in Medicine 2018.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**