---
title: "TULP3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene TULP3"
tags: ['TULP3', 'RetinitisPigmentosa', 'PhotoreceptorCells', 'GeneticCounseling', 'LowVisionAids', 'MutationScreening', 'SomaticVariants', 'QualityOfLife']
---

# Information about Gene TULP3

## Genetic Position

- Chromosome: 5
- Start Position: 37,913,168 bp
- End Position: 37,947,104 bp
- Strand: Plus

## Pathology and Function

- Pathology: Mutations in TULP3 gene are linked to retinitis pigmentosa, which is a group of genetic vision disorders that cause vision loss and sometimes blindness.
- Function: TULP3 gene encodes for a protein named Tubby like protein 3 (TULP3) that is involved in the development and maintenance of photoreceptor cells, the cells responsible for detecting light in the retina.

## General Information

- Gene Name: TULP3
- External IDs: HGNC:18087, NCBI Gene:7284, Ensembl:ENSG00000113441, OMIM: 608655, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O75363
- Aliases: RP61

## AA Mutation List

- c.453C>T (p.Pro151Ser); rs61745256
- c.664C>T (p.Thr222Met); rs61759734
- c.1096A>G (p.Lys366Arg); rs267606698
- c.1520C>T (p.Ala507Val); rs137853176

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

- No somatic SNVs or InDels have been reported in TULP3 gene.

## Related Disease

- Retinitis pigmentosa

## Treatment and Prognosis

- Currently, there is no cure for retinitis pigmentosa caused by TULP3 gene mutations. However, management options such as low vision aids, orientation and mobility training, and genetic counseling are available to improve the quality of life for affected individuals.

## Drug Response

- No information available.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Mutation screening of patients with Leber congenital amaurosis or retinitis pigmentosa
Author: Gerber S, Perrault I, Hanein S, et al.
DOI: 10.1167/iovs.05-0802

- Subject: Three novel mutations and a SNP in the TULP1 gene in patients with retinitis pigmentosa
Author: Thompson DA, Li Y, McHenry CL, et al.
DOI: 10.1167/iovs.05-0500

- Subject: Identification of novel mutations in the TULP1 gene in patients with retinitis pigmentosa.
Author: Kumar A, Shetgar AC, Patil S, et al.
DOI: 10.1007/s11033-019-04922-w

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**