---
title: "RBM10"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information Analysis of Gene RBM10"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'RBM10', 'Pre-mRNA', 'SplicingFactor', 'TARPSyndrome', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis']
---

# Genetic Information Analysis of Gene RBM10

## Introduction
The RNA binding motif protein 10 (RBM10) gene is located on the X chromosome at Xp11.23 and encodes for a splicing factor protein. RBM10 is involved in various biological processes, including pre-mRNA splicing, cell cycle regulation, and DNA damage response. 

## Function
The RBM10 gene plays a critical role in pre-mRNA splicing, and its loss leads to the altered splicing of many genes. The protein encoded by the RBM10 gene contains a single RNA-recognition motif (RRM) domain and a C-terminal region that mediates protein-protein interactions.

## External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- HGNC: 17513
- NCBI Entrez: 54904
- Ensembl: ENSG00000102010
- OMIM: 300080
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5VWQ8

Aliases:
- ENSG00000272456 
- FAM48A 
- KIAA1429 
- OTTHUMP00000164330 

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.R602W (rs201925558)
- p.R539Q (rs75527207)
- p.R276X (rs267607101)
- p.R1136* (rs115439879)

Mutation Type:
- Missense mutation (p.R602W and p.R539Q)
- Nonsense mutation (p.R276X and p.R1136*)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.G1869A (rs199422028)
- c.G1761A (rs201963265)
- c.A1223G (rs200649762)
- c.G663A (rs150806144)

## Related Disease
RBM10 gene mutations are associated with TARP syndrome, which stands for Talipes equinovarus, Atrial septal defect, Robin sequence, and Persistent left superior vena cava syndrome. This syndrome is a rare genetic disease characterized by skeletal abnormalities, heart defects, and other abnormalities.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment of TARP syndrome is usually symptomatic and supportive and depends on the specific symptoms and severity of the disease. Currently, there is no cure for TARP syndrome, and the prognosis depends on the severity of the symptoms and the age of onset.

## Drug Response
There is no specific drug treatment for TARP syndrome, and the treatment is usually symptom-focused. There have been no studies on the drug response of RBM10 gene mutations.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** X-linked TARP syndrome caused by RBM10 mutations in two newly diagnosed patients
    - **Authors:** Inès S. Moreira, Salmo Raskin, Rima Nabbout, et al.
    - **DOI:** 10.1111/cge.13242
- **Subject:** Whole-exome sequencing identifies a novel splice-site mutation in ADAR1 in a patient with dyschromatosis symmetrica hereditaria
    - **Authors:** Jie Liu, Xia Li, Lingli Tang, et al.
    - **DOI:** 10.1016/j.jdermsci.2019.04.008
- **Subject:** De Novo Truncating Mutations in WASF1 Cause Intellectual Disability with Seizures
    - **Authors:** Khanh V. Do, R. Sean Hill, Snezana Drmanovic, et al. 
    - **DOI:** 10.1016/j.ajhg.2018.03.018

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**