---
title: "NT5C2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: NT5C2"
tags: ['NT5C2', 'GeneticInformation', 'Function', 'Pathology', 'Disease', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene: NT5C2

### Information

#### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 10
- Location: 10q24.32

#### Pathology
NT5C2 gene is associated with several disorders including:
- Hematological malignancies
- Relapsed and refractory childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia
- Hepatic veno-occlusive disease with immunodeficiency syndrome (VODI)

#### Function
The NT5C2 gene encodes an enzyme called cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase II, which is involved in the metabolism of purine nucleotides. It hydrolyzes 5'-nucleotides to nucleosides, which can then be reused in nucleotide synthesis or salvaged to form nucleoside triphosphates.

#### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 8038
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 84634
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000165049
- OMIM ID: 607542
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9NZJ9
- Aliases: cN-II, NT5C2a, NT5C2b

#### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several amino acid mutations associated with the NT5C2 gene along with their mutation type and dbSNP ID. Some of them are listed below:
- p.Arg367Cys, Missense, rs796702724
- p.Asn92Lys, Missense, rs1057519943
- p.Pro59Ser, Missense, rs762577957

#### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and insertions/deletions (InDels) associated with the NT5C2 gene along with their dbSNP ID. Some of them are listed below:
- rs761966455
- rs796521037
- rs782215365

#### Related Disease
NT5C2 gene is associated with the following diseases:
- Hematological malignancies
- Relapsed and refractory childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia
- Hepatic veno-occlusive disease with immunodeficiency syndrome (VODI)

#### Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment and prognosis for NT5C2-associated diseases depend upon the specific condition and its severity. Some common treatments include chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation.

#### Drug Response
There is limited information available regarding the drug response for NT5C2-associated diseases.

### References
- Li et. al. (2017) NT5C2 Mutations Conferring Relapse Risk Are Associated with Increased Cytoplasmic Nucleotides and Poorer Outcome in Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. Journal of Clinical Oncology.
- Kuehn et. al. (2020) Gain-of-function SAMD9L mutations cause a syndrome of cytopenia, immunodeficiency, MDS, and neurological symptoms. Blood. 

## Instructions
Please provide me with the gene name/question/subject so that I can assist you with a similar markdown format information.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**