---
title: "HIGD2A"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: HIGD2A"
tags: ['HIGD2A', 'MitochondrialRespiration', 'Hypoxia', 'OxidativeStress', 'GeneRegulation', 'MetabolicRegulator', 'RenalCancer', 'PostoperativeOutcomes']
---

# Gene: HIGD2A

## Information

HIGD2A is a gene located on chromosome 2 and encodes a protein called hypoxia-inducible protein 2 alpha (Higd2a).

## Function

Higd2a protein is involved in the regulation of mitochondrial respiration during hypoxia and oxidative stress. It functions as a stress-responsive survival factor that maintains mitochondrial function and ATP production under hypoxic conditions.

## External IDs and Aliases

- Genomic location: Chr2:143,657,492-143,668,255 
- Gene ID: 84315
- HGNC ID: 18642
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000136733
- OMIM ID: -
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q8N6P7

## Mutations

- AA mutation(s): N/A
- Mutation type(s): N/A
- dbSNP ID(s): N/A

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

- dbSNP ID(s): N/A

## Related Disease

- We are unable to find any specific disease associated with HIGD2A. Further research required to determine its link with any pathological condition.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- As the association of HIGD2A with any disease is still uncertain, there is no information available regarding its treatment and prognosis.

## Drug Response

- N/A

## Related Papers

- Subject: HIGD2A as a critical metabolic regulator.
- Author name(s): Li T, Degani R, Odho Z, Becker L, Wei Y, Li Y, Wei L, Amleh A, Iverson L, Zhang H, Cheng Z, Barnawi R, Meng F, Zhao Y, and Chen L.
- DOI: 10.7554/eLife.52696

- Subject: Hypoxia-inducible gene 2 promotes renal cancer cell growth and predicts poor postoperative outcomes of patients with clear cell renal cell carcinoma.
- Author name(s): Xing J, Zhang Z, Mao C, Dai J, and Zhu Y.
- DOI: 10.7150/jca.23632

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**