---
title: "TBL1XR1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene TBL1XR1"
tags: ['TBL1XR1', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'TranscriptionalRegulation', 'BreastCancer', 'LungCancer', 'ColorectalCancer', 'Treatment']
---

# Information about gene TBL1XR1

## Genetic Position
The TBL1XR1 gene is located on Chromosome 3 and its chromosomal location is 3q26.31.

## Pathology
Mutations in the TBL1XR1 gene have been associated with various types of cancer, including breast, lung, and colorectal cancer.

## Function
The TBL1XR1 gene encodes for a protein that is involved in a number of cellular processes, including transcriptional regulation, cell proliferation and differentiation.

## External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 10616
- HGNC ID: 17153
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000145216
- NCBI Entrez ID: 8655
- OMIM ID: 605379
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9UBW7
- Aliases: TBL1X, TBL1

## AA Mutation List with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID
|Amino Acid|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|:--------|:-----------|:-------|
|Glu39Lys|Missense|rs766173373|
|Arg244Cys|Missense|rs267607161|
|Arg251Leu|Missense|rs148645628|
|Cys412Tyr|Missense|rs534414910|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|:-----------|:-------|
|Missense|rs104894671|
|Missense|rs770737792|
|Frameshift|rs1556897|

## Related Disease
- Breast Cancer
- Lung Cancer
- Colorectal Cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment and prognosis for TBL1XR1-related cancers will depend on a number of factors, including cancer stage, mutation type, and other patient-specific factors. There are currently no specific treatments available for patients with TBL1XR1-mutated cancers.

## Drug Response
There is limited information available on drug response for patients with TBL1XR1-mutated cancers.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Targeting the TBL1XR1/TP63 Signaling Axis in Luminal B Breast Cancer 
  - Author: Kanaya N, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1158/2159-8290.Cd-16-0292
  
- Subject: TBL1XR1 Mutation in Human Breast Cancer Promotes the Oncogenic Programmed by ESR1/SP and Survived Cancer Cells 
  - Author: Li L, et al.
  - DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2018.3724

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**