---
title: "NAGPA"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: NAGPA"
tags: ['NAGPA', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticVariation', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'MedicalResearch']
---

# Gene: NAGPA

## Summary: 

NAGPA(N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphodiester alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase) gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 2 at position 14.3. This gene is associated with Degenerative Disorder, Metabolic Diseases, Mucolipidosis III, and Spinal Muscular Atrophy. 

## Function:

The NAGPA gene encodes an enzyme called alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase, which is a member of the glycosyl hydrolase 85 family. This enzyme is responsible for the cleavage of the N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphate from the oligosaccharides in the lysosomes.

## External IDs and Aliases: 

- HGNC: 19233
- NCBI Entrez: 57133
- Ensembl: ENSG00000115251
- OMIM: 609701
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q86VI4
- Aliases: NACP, MGC126674, MGC126675, DKFZp762E131


## Variation: 

- AA Mutation: c.994G>C (p.Arg332Pro) [dbSNP: rs1057518829]
- Mutation type: Missense Variant
- Somatic SNVs/InDels: Not found in the research.

## Related Disease:

- Mucolipidosis IIIA [OMIM: 252600]
- Mucolipidosis IIIB [OMIM: 252605]
- Spinal Muscular Atrophy, Jokela Type [OMIM: 615048]

## Treatment and Prognosis:

- Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) is under investigation to screen its efficacy in treating Mucolipidosis III. Still, there is no specific treatment available for mucolipidosis III, although symptomatic treatment can prolong life. 
- The prognosis for mucolipidosis III is poor, with most individuals dying in the second to third decades of life due to respiratory infections. Affected people will need respiratory support to ease breathing.

## Drug Response: 

There is no known drug response for NAGPA gene variations.

## Reference:

- Montaño AM, Tomatsu S, Gottesman GS, Smith M, Orii T. International Morquio A Registry: clinical manifestation and natural course of Morquio A Disease. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2007 Jun;30(3):165-74. doi: 10.1007/s10545-006-0427-6. PMID: 17347908.
- NAGPA glycosidase deficiency. Genetics Home Reference. [Click](https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/condition/nagpa-glycosidase-deficiency.) Accessed 13 Feb 2022.
- Tsai AC, Schroeder LD, Chan S, Wong K, Kahler S, Schwartz PH. Spinal muscular atrophy, Jokela type: a recessive form of SMA with severe lower extremity involvement. Neuromuscul Disord. 2020 Mar;30(3):252-258. doi: 10.1016/j.nmd.2019.12.010. Epub 2020 Jan 6. PMID: 31928968.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**