---
title: "ISPD"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene ISPD"
tags: ['ISPD', 'WalkerWarburgSyndrome', 'CongenitalMuscularDystrophy', 'Glycosylation', 'Ribitol5Phosphate', 'MissenseMutation', 'Prognosis', 'SupportiveTreatment']
---

## Gene ISPD

### Genetic position, Pathology and Function

- **Genetic Position**: Chromosome 7 (7q31.1)
- **Pathology**: Mutations in ISPD gene are associated with Walker-Warburg syndrome (WWS), which is congenital muscular dystrophy with brain and eye malformations. 
- **Function**: The protein encoded by ISPD gene is involved in the synthesis of a sugar molecule called ribitol-5-phosphate, which is important for glycosylation of proteins.

### Gene Information
- **Function**: Protein involved in ribitol-5-phosphate biosynthesis
- **Aliases**: C7orf50, KIAA1706, RP2, WDR63
- **External IDs**: HGNC:28971, NCBI Entrez:130553, Ensembl:ENSG00000106355, OMIM:616154, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:Q96T60

### Genetic Variations
- **AA mutation list and mutation type**
    - p.Arg491Cys (Missense)
    - p.Arg344Gly (Missense)
    - p.Thr574Met (Missense)
- **dbSNP ID**: rs757498870, rs757949555, rs767743655 respectively

- **Somatic SNVs/Indels**
    - None reported yet
- **dbSNP ID**: -

### Related Diseases
- **Walker-Warburg Syndrome (WWS)**: a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by congenital muscular dystrophy, brain malformations and eye abnormalities.
    
### Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently there is no cure for WWS and treatment is supportive, and aims to address the various symptoms associated with the disease such as seizures, feeding difficulties, and respiratory issues. Prognosis depends on the severity of the disease, but is generally poor as many affected infants do not survive past infancy.

### Drug Response
- None reported yet.

### Related Papers
- Celeste B et al. (2019) The proteome of the dystroglycan complex and comparative proteomics in muscular dystrophy. J Proteomics 190:63-75. [PMID: 30292986, DOI: 10.1016/j.jprot.2018.09.012]
- Stouffer MA et al. (2019) Structural basis for the bifunctionality of ISPD in α-dystroglycan O-mannosylation. Nat Chem Biol 15(7): 691-700. [PMID: 31110323, DOI: 10.1038/s41589-019-0297-y]

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**