---
title: "SULF1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SULF1"
tags: ['SULF1', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene SULF1
**Genetic Position:** Chromosome 8q13.2

**Pathology:** SULF1 gene is associated with various diseases including cancer, Alzheimer's disease, and developmental disorders.

**Function:** SULF1 encodes for a sulfatase enzyme that modifies the extracellular matrix by cleaving 6-O sulfate groups on heparan sulfate proteoglycans, affecting signaling pathways mediated by growth factors and cytokines.

**External IDs and Aliases:**
- HGNC ID: 20438
- NCBI Entrez ID:  sulfatase 1 (NM_001031739)
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000147437
- OMIM ID: 605370
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q8IWU5

**AA Mutation List and dbSNP ID:**
- p.Arg493Cys (rs192644771)
- p.Cys43Arg (rs200434731)
- p.Ile30Thr (rs371183747)

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
- c.1198G>A (rs193547251)
- c.157G>A (rs193267368)
- c.310A>T (rs150091842)

**Related Diseases:**
- Colorectal Cancer
- Hepatocellular carcinoma
- Glioblastoma
- Neuroblastoma
- Breast cancer

**Treatment and Prognosis:**
- Various studies have suggested that SULF1 plays a role in cancer progression and metastasis.
- Targeting SULF1 enzyme activity may provide a potential therapeutic approach for cancer treatment.
- The prognosis of diseases associated with SULF1 gene varies depending on the disease and individual case.

**Drug Response:**
- The response to drugs targeting SULF1 is still under investigation.

**Related papers:**
- Gustavsson, J., Jain, D., Bhuiyan, T., Moens, L., & Winkler, J. D. (2019). Sulfatases as Regulators of Inflammation and Immunity. Biology, 8(2), 39. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/biology8020039)
- Lai, J., An, J., Nelson, C. C., & Lehman, M. L. (2017). Sulfatase 1 and sulfatase 2 in hepatocellular carcinoma: associated signaling pathways, tumor phenotypes, and survival. Genes & Cancer, 8(7-8), 612–620. [Click](https://doi.org/10.18632/genesandcancer.149)
- Lai, J., Chien, J., & Lehman, M. L. (2019). Progressive Deconstruction of the Hepatocellular Carcinoma Epigenome: Sulfatase 1 in Focus. Epigenomes, 3(2), 13. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/epigenomes3020013)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**