---
title: "DIABLO"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene DIABLO"
tags: ['GeneDIABLO', 'MitochondrialProtein', 'ApoptosisRegulation', 'Cancer', 'NeurodegenerativeDiseases', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene DIABLO

## Information about the Gene
- **Function:** DIABLO (also known as SMAC) is a mitochondrial protein that functions as an inhibitor of inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAPs), promoting caspase activation and apoptosis. It is involved in the regulation of apoptotic cell death and plays a role in tumor progression.
- **External IDs and Genomic Location:**
    - HGNC: 2950
    - NCBI Entrez: 56616
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000138535
    - OMIM: 605348
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NR28
    - Genomic location: Chromosome 12q24.31
- **Aliases:** SMAC

## Mutation Information
- **AA Mutation List:** There are variants of DIABLO that have been reported to be associated with cancer and other diseases. Some of the amino acid (AA) mutations that have been reported include:
    - D66H (rs17878890)
    - L121R (rs17856473)
    - V379I (rs55821708)
    - D435E (rs55878083)
    - A474T (rs55825646)
- **Mutation Type:** Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs)
- **dbSNP ID:** rs17878890, rs17856473, rs55821708, rs55878083, rs55825646.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels with a dbSNP ID for the DIABLO gene.

## Related Disease
DIABLO has been associated with several diseases, including:
- Cancer
- Alzheimer's disease
- Parkinson's disease
- Ischemic Stroke
- Spinal Cord Injury

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis of DIABLO-associated diseases varies by condition and severity. There is no specific treatment for DIABLO mutations since they are associated with diseases that require different treatments.
 
## Drug Response
There is insufficient evidence available to suggest drugs that specifically target DIABLO mutations. 

## Related Paper Links
- Author: Waihong Chung
  - [DOI: 10.1038/sj.onc.1207934](https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.onc.1207934)
- Author: Xi M, Xu H, Zheng X, Yang X
  - [DOI: 10.3892/or.2015.4490](https://doi.org/10.3892/or.2015.4490)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**