---
title: "AR"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: AR"
tags: ['ARgene', 'AndrogenReceptor', 'MissenseMutation', 'Deletion', 'ProstateCancer', 'BreastCancer', 'DrugResponse', 'GenomicLocation']
---

## Gene: AR

AR is the abbreviation for Androgen Receptor Gene.

### Function
The Androgen Receptor Gene, AR, encodes a protein that is a member of the steroid hormone receptor family. It plays a crucial role in triggering the transcription process of genes involved in male sexual development and prostate cancer progression.

### Genomic Location

AR is located at the end of the long arm of the X chromosome, Xq11-12.

### External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 644
- NCBI Entrez: 367
- Ensembl: ENSG00000169083
- OMIM: 313700
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P10275
- Aliases: AIS, AR8, DHTR, HUMARA, KD, NR3C4, SBMA, SMAX1, TFM

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

|Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID|
|--------|------|--------|
|p.Leu562Arg | Missense | rs6162 |
|p.Pro390His | Missense | rs121912617 |
|p.Gly674Ser | Missense | rs267606745 |
|p.Leu701Phe | Missense | rs121912615 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

|Mutation | Type |dbSNP ID|
|---------|------|-------|
|c.2619delA | Deletion | rs869025320 |
|c.2577G>T | Missense | rs670195119 |
|c.1332A>G | Missense | rs201508789 |

### Related Diseases

Mutations in the AR gene have been found to be associated with several diseases, including:

- Androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS)
- Spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA)
- Prostate cancer
- Breast cancer

### Treatment and Prognosis

The treatment and prognosis for diseases related to AR gene mutations depend on the type and severity of the mutation and associated disease.

### Drug Response

Several drugs have been developed that target the AR gene, such as Enzalutamide, Bicalutamide, and Flutamide. These drugs are used to treat prostate cancer by blocking the ability of the androgen receptor to bind and respond to androgen hormones.

### References

- Quaynor SD, Kim HG, Cappello EM, Williams T, Chorich LP, Bick DP, Sherins RJ, Layman LC. (2011) "The prevalence of digenic mutations in patients with normosmic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and Kallmann syndrome." Fertil Steril. 96(6): 1424-30.
- Wu RC, et al. (2014) "Selective phosphorylations of the SRC-3/AIB1 coactivator integrate genomic reponses to multiple cellular signaling pathways." Mol Cell. 53(5): 1-13.
- Kimura T, et al. (2020) "Androgen Receptor Genomic Regulation." Transl Androl Urol. 9(5): 2345-2363.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**