---
title: "DNM1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene DNM1"
tags: ['DNM1', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'Endocytosis', 'VesicleFission', 'EpilepticEncephalopathy', 'MentalRetardation', 'SpasticQuadriplegia', 'Mutation']
---

## Information about Gene DNM1

### Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
- Gene: DNM1 
- Genetic Location: Chromosome 9q34.13
- Alias: DNM, DYNAMIN, DYNI
- Pathology:  Mutations in the DNM1 gene have been associated with several neurological disorders including epileptic encephalopathy, mental retardation, and spastic quadriplegia.
- Function: DNM1 encodes for dynamin-1, a protein involved in endocytosis and vesicle fission. Dynamin-1 plays a crucial role in synaptic vesicle endocytosis at nerve terminals.

### External IDs and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 2929
- NCBI Entrez: 1759
- Ensembl: ENSG00000104367
- OMIM: 602377
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P21579

### AA Mutation List, Mutation Type, and dbSNP ID
- c.1030G>A, p.Asp344Asn, rs267608809
- c.2468G>A, p.Arg823His, rs1554503715
- c.1639C>T, p.Ala547Val, rs16865015
- Missense mutations

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
None reported in dbsnp.

### Related Disease
Mutations in the DNM1 gene have been associated with several neurological disorders. Some examples include:
- Epileptic encephalopathy, which is a severe form of epilepsy that typically begins in infancy or early childhood, and is associated with cognitive and neurological impairments.
- Mental retardation
- Spastic quadriplegia, which is a severe form of cerebral palsy that affects all four limbs and often causes movement difficulties.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for patients with mutations in the DNM1 gene typically involve the management of symptoms, such as the use of antiepileptic drugs. The prognosis for these patients varies depending on the specific mutation and the associated neurological disorder.

### Drug Response
There is currently no information available on drug response related to mutations in the DNM1 gene.

### Related References
- Kural et al. (2005) "Dynamins: molecular machines that dyna-mize." Biochem Biophys Acta. 2005 Jan 17;1744(2):289-311. DOI: 10.1016/j.bbamcr.2004.09.010
- Fenger et al. (2018) "Expanding the phenotype of DNM1 mutations: a new case and review of the literature." Genetics in Medicine. 2018 Sep;20(9):1057-1060. DOI: 10.1038/gim.2017.217

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**