---
title: "SRP72"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information Analysis of Gene SRP72"
tags: ['SRP72', 'SignalRecognitionParticle', 'MissenseMutation', 'Deafness', 'OvarianCancer', 'ProteinTargeting', 'InnateImmuneResponse', 'ExomeSequencing']
---

# Genetic Information Analysis of Gene SRP72

## Gene Information 

- **Gene:** SRP72
- **Aliases:** SRP68, SRA, SRP72, TMD1, TNRC14, TRAPD, TRAPD68
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 17q25.3
- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 11340
    - NCBI Entrez Gene: 6730
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000141505
    - OMIM: 604139
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P50522
 
## Function

The SRP72 gene encodes a protein component of the signal recognition particle (SRP) complex, which is involved in the co-translational targeting of proteins to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane. The SRP complex recognizes the signal peptide sequence of the nascent protein emerging from the ribosome and directs it to the ER membrane for insertion or secretion.

## Mutations

- **AA Mutation List:**
    - c.2017G>A
    - c.2803A>G
    - c.2339G>A
- **Mutation Type:** Missense
- **dbSNP IDs:**
    - rs202173199
    - rs183574394
    - rs372708335
    
## Somatic SNVs/InDels

- None reported so far.

## Related Diseases

Mutations in the SRP72 gene have been implicated in several diseases, including:
- Autosomal dominant Deafness 45 (DFNA45)
- Ovarian cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there are no specific treatments for diseases caused by mutations in the SRP72 gene. Treatment options depend on the specific disease and associated symptoms. Prognosis varies depending on the disease and severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response

Information on drug response related to SRP72 gene mutations is currently limited.

## Related Papers

- **Title:** Exome sequencing identifies a mutation in the signal peptide of SRP72 in a family with autosomal dominant nonsyndromic hearing loss.
  - **Authors:** Cho HJ, et al.
  - **Journal:** PLoS One.
  - **Pubmed ID:** 25526513
  - **DOI:** 10.1371/journal.pone.0115930
  
- **Title:** Loss of SRP72-mediated protein targeting to the ER leads to suppression of the innate immune response.
  - **Authors:** Shao S, et al.
  - **Journal:** Elife.
  - **Pubmed ID:** 25537351
  - **DOI:** 10.7554/eLife.05040.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**