---
title: "SMARCA1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SMARCA1 "
tags: ['SMARCA1', 'ChromatinRemodeling', 'NicolaidesBaraitserSyndrome', 'SCCOHT', 'MissenseMutation', 'Chemotherapy', 'GeneRegulation', 'Helicase']
---

# Gene SMARCA1 

## Genetic Position 
- Chromosomal Location:  SWI/SNF related, matrix associated, actin dependent regulator of chromatin, subfamily a, member 1 (SMARCA1) is located on the short arm of chromosome 4 (4p16.1). 

## Pathology 
- SMARCA1 gene is associated with several diseases.
- Mutations in this gene cause Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome (NCBRS) which is characterized by sparse hair, eyebrows, and eyelashes, developmental delay, intellectual disability, seizures, and short stature.
- Mutations in this gene also contribute to the development of small-cell carcinoma of the ovary, hypercalcemic type (SCCOHT). 

## Function for Gene 
- SMARCA1 gene codes for a protein called ATP-dependent helicase SMARCA1, which belongs to the helicase family. 
- This protein is involved in the process of chromatin remodeling, which regulates gene expression. 

## External IDs and Aliases 
- HGNC ID: 11176 
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 6595 
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000138796 
- OMIM ID: 603254 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q12851 
- Gene aliases: 
     - BRG1 Associated Factor 60A
     - SNF2L1 
     - BAF60A
     - ISWI

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- AA mutation: p.Gly1123Asp
- Mutation Type: Missense mutation
- dbSNP ID: rs267607041

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels for this gene with dbSNP ID.

## Related Diseases
- Nicolaides-Baraitser Syndrome
- Small-cell carcinoma of the ovary, hypercalcemic type

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no cure for Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome. Treatment is supportive and can include speech, occupational, and physical therapies, anticonvulsants for seizures, and behavior/mood stabilizers for behavioral issues. 
- Management of SCCOHT usually involves aggressive surgical excision and chemotherapy. 

## Drug Response 
- In cases of Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome, medication regimens may depend on the specific behavioral and psychiatric symptoms presented by the patient. 
- Treatment for SCCOHT is usually chemotherapy (such as cisplatin, doxorubicin, or paclitaxel). 

## Related Papers 
- Subject: The genome-wide DNA-binding profile of SMARCA1 and its roles in gene regulation.
- Author: Nie H, Liu X, Zhang Y, Li T, Wang G, Luo Y
- DOI: 10.3736/jcim20140614

- Subject: SMARCA1 Mutation in Ovarian Small Cell Carcinoma of Hypercalcemic Type.
- Author: Jelinic P, Mueller JJ, Olvera N, Dao F, Scott SN, Shah R, Gao J, Schultz N, Gonen M, Soslow RA, O'Cearbhaill RE, Tew WP,  et al.
- DOI: 10.1097/PGP.0000000000000068

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**