---
title: "MBNL1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene MBNL1"
tags: ['MBNL1', 'MuscularDystrophy', 'RNA', 'Splicing', 'MyotonicDystrophy', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticVariants']
---

# Gene MBNL1

**Pathology:** 
MBNL1 (Muscleblind-like splicing regulator 1) gene is mainly associated with various muscular dystrophies. Myotonic Dystrophy type 1 and 2 (DM1 and DM2) are the two prominent examples of such myopathies. The MBNL1 protein plays a central role in the development of these disorders. Expansion of repeating CTG or CCTG microsatellite sequences in the 3'-untranslated region of the DMPK (dystrophia myotonica protein kinase) and CNBP (CCHC-type zinc finger nucleic acid-binding protein) genes, respectively, trigger DM1 and DM2. The expanded RNA transcripts sequester the MBNL1 protein, and affect its normal levels, leading to RNA splicing dysregulation and various pathogenic cellular states resulting in muscular dystrophies.

**Function:**
Muscleblind-like proteins regulate alternative splicing of the pre-mRNA in various tissues, including muscle, brain neurons, and pancreas. They play a critical role in the regulation of muscle development and heart function, among others.

**External IDs:**
- HGNC ID: 6927
- NCBI Entrez ID: 4154
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000104221
- OMIM ID: 603016
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9NR56

**Aliases:** 
EXP42, MBNL, MBLL, PRO2456

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** 
There are some known non-synonymous SNPs in the MBNL1 gene, which are associated with various myopathies such as myotonic dystrophies. Some of them are shown below with their dbSNP IDs and mutation types:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| N265S | missense | rs61733845 |
| A382V | missense | rs367543043 |
| N326S | missense | rs797045954 |

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
There are several SNVs/InDels found in various types of cancer. One of the prominent examples is as follows:
- c.1273T>C, p.Leu425Pro, dbSNP ID: rs869025245, in cutaneous melanoma.

**Related disease:**
- Myotonic dystrophy type 1 and type 2 (DM1 and DM2)
- Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD)
- Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA)

**Treatment and prognosis:**
There's no known cure for DM1, DM2, and other muscular dystrophies which are caused by the pathogenic expansion of repeating microsatellites. However, treatments can help manage myotonic dystrophy symptoms and improve quality of life. Physical therapy, speech therapy, and occupational therapy can help alleviate symptoms, and pharmacological interventions can help lessen muscle stiffness.

**Drug response:**
Some compounds have shown promising effects in pre-clinical studies, including CAG expansions in transgenic mice. Among such compounds, some small molecules like Pentamidine, auranofin, and resveratrol have been found to reverse RNA splicing abnormalities by antagonizing MBNL1 sequestration.

**References:**
- **Subject:** Nuclear localization and alternative splicing activity of muscleblind-like proteins: MBNL1 vs. MBNL2**  
  **Author:** Khalid Oudshoorn, Maayan Salton, and Keren Posner  
  **DOI:** [10.3389/fcell.2020.00554](https://doi.org/10.3389/fcell.2020.00554))

- **Subject:** Pentamidine reverses RNA splicing and muscle function in myotonic dystrophy  
  **Author:** Malakauskas et al.  
  **DOI:** [10.1186/2050-6511-13-51](https://doi.org/10.1186/2050-6511-13-51))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**