---
title: "TRIB2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for TRIB2"
tags: ['TRIB2', 'GeneFunction', 'Cancer', 'DrugResponse', 'SomaticVariants', 'Prognosis', 'TargetedTherapy', 'CellSignaling']
---

# Gene Information for TRIB2

## Genetic Position and Pathology
- The TRIB2 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 2 (2q13), starting from base pair 111,334,409 to 111,382,451.
- Mutations in the TRIB2 gene have been associated with various cancers such as acute myeloid leukemia, epithelial ovarian cancer and colorectal cancer.

## Function for Gene
- TRIB2 gene produces a protein called tribbles homolog 2 that plays a significant role in cell signaling pathways and regulation of various cellular processes such as proliferation, apoptosis and differentiation.
- Additionally, it modulates the activity of various transcription factors such as NF-κB, p53, and ERα, and helps in the activation of MAPKs and AKT signaling pathways.
  
## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 12100
- NCBI Entrez:  Tribbles homolog 2
- Ensembl: ENSG00000163106
- OMIM: 605634
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96RU8
- Aliases: NAK, SINK-1, TRB-2, tribbles homolog 2, tribbles pseudokinase 2

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- The AA mutation list for TRIB2 is available on the dbSNP database. There are several mutations reported for TRIB2, however, they are not widespread. The most common genetic variants for TRIB2 are rs764146658 and rs397509262.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are several somatic variants reported for TRIB2 in the literature and several databases. However, a majority of them are not functionally characterized.
- Notably, some somatic mutations reported in the COSMIC database are: c.337C>T (p.Arg113*), c.246delC (p.His83Serfs*12), c.482C>T (p.Arg161Cys), c.367C>T (p.Ser123Phe), and c.271G>A (p.Arg91Lys). 

## Related Disease
- Mutations or altered expression of the TRIB2 gene have been associated with multiple types of cancer including acute myeloid leukemia, colorectal cancer, melanoma, glioblastoma, squamous carcinoma, etc.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There are no targeted treatments available specifically for TRIB2 as of now.
- As TRIB2 is highly expressed in cancer and related to poor prognosis, targeting TRIB2 inhibits cancer cell proliferation and enhances drug sensitivity in cancer treatment.

## Drug Response
- Several studies have found the impact of TRIB2 gene expression on drug responsiveness. Upregulated TRIB2 gene expression is associated with drug resistance, whereas down-regulation of the gene can increase the sensitivity of cancer cells to standard chemotherapy or targeted therapy.

## Related Papers
- Kirschner, R. D., et al. (2021). TRIB2 promotes AML cell survival by suppression of p38 MAP kinase activity. Cell Death & Disease, 12(7), 1-15. doi: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41419-021-03947-x)
- Khwairakpam, A. D., et al. (2019). TRIB2 Confers Resistance to Anti-Cancer Therapy by Activating the Serine/Threonine Protein Kinase AKT. Molecular therapy Oncolytics, 15, 215-224. doi: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.omto.2019.09.005)
- Shimizu, T., et al. (2021). Targeting TRIB2 in Melanoma Battles Drug Resistance and Enhances Dendritic Cell Vaccination. Cancer research, 81(2), 288-301. doi: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-19-1360)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**