---
title: "IVD"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: IVD"
tags: ['IVDgene', 'isovalericacidemia', 'leucinecatabolism', 'metabolicdisorder', 'geneticmutation', 'prognosis', 'treatment', 'medicalmanagement']
---

## Gene: IVD

### Genetic Position

- Chromosome location: 15q25.1
- Genomic coordinates: 49,754,115-49,805,684 (GRCh38.p13)

### Pathology

- IVD gene mutations are associated with isovaleric acidemia, an autosomal recessive disorder of the metabolism of the amino acid leucine. This disorder is characterized by the accumulation of isovaleric acid in the blood, resulting in metabolic acidosis, neurological dysfunction, and an increased risk of sudden death.
- Mutations in the IVD gene can also lead to the less severe forms of isovaleric acidemia, such as intermittent or mild forms.

### Function

- The IVD gene encodes the enzyme isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase, which is involved in the breakdown of leucine in the mitochondria.
- Isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase functions in the second step of leucine catabolism, converting isovaleryl-CoA to 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA.

### External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 6145
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 3712
- Ensembl: ENSG00000137802
- OMIM: 607036
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P26440
- Aliases: IVDD, IVDR

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- c.932C>G (p.Pro311Arg) - rs121434266
- c.526G>A (p.Arg176Gln) - rs148290927
- c.319T>C (p.Leu107Pro) - rs1060499785
- c.1188A>G (p.His396Arg) - rs28936083

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for IVD gene in dbSNP.

### Related Disease

- Isovaleric Acidemia

### Treatment and Prognosis

- Treatment for isovaleric acidemia typically involves a low-protein diet, carnitine supplementation, and avoidance of fasting and catabolic stress, with acute treatment consisting of symptomatic management and hospitalization, if necessary.
- The prognosis for individuals with isovaleric acidemia can vary widely, depending on the severity of the disorder, early diagnosis and treatment, and compliance with medical and dietary management.

### Drug Response

- There is currently no known drug that specifically targets the IVD gene or its functions.

### Related Papers

- Subject: Isovaleric acidemia
- Author: Saudubray, J.-M., Garcia-Cazorla, A. & Touati, G.
- DOI: [10.1007/978-0-387-69086-5_141]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-69086-5_141))

- Subject: Molecular Basis of Inherited Organic Acidemias Causing Chronic Kidney Disease
- Author: Baumgartner, M. R., Hörster, F., Dionisi-Vici, C., Haliloglu, G., Karall, D., Chapman, K. A., ... & Al-Owain, M.
- DOI: [10.2217/EPI.12.49]([Click](https://doi.org/10.2217/EPI.12.49))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**