---
title: "SUGCT"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene SUGCT Information"
tags: ['SUGCT', 'MetabolicDisorder', 'SCOTdeficiency', 'Mitochondria', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Research']
---

## Gene SUGCT Information

### Genetic Position
The SUGCT gene (also known as succinate-glutaryl-coenzyme A transferase) is located on the long arm of chromosome 13 at position 32.3.

### Pathology
Mutations in the SUGCT gene have been associated with a rare metabolic disorder called succinyl-CoA:3-oxoacid CoA transferase (SCOT) deficiency. This disorder is characterized by the body's inability to convert certain fats and amino acids into energy, leading to a range of symptoms including developmental delays, seizures, and metabolic acidosis.

### Function
The SUGCT gene encodes for the enzyme succinyl-CoA:glutarate CoA transferase, which plays a crucial role in the breakdown of certain amino acids and fats for energy production in the mitochondria.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 11363
- NCBI Entrez: 116430
- Ensembl: ENSG00000140095
- OMIM: 608805
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q86YC2

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Types
There are several known mutations in the SUGCT gene associated with SCOT deficiency. These include missense, nonsense, frameshift, and splice site mutations. Some examples include:

| Mutation Type | AA Mutation | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Missense mutation | Pro225Leu | rs137853734 |
| Nonsense mutation | Arg60Ter | rs137853744 |
| Frameshift mutation | Glu72fs | rs1554302527 |
| Splice site mutation | c.40+5G>A | rs752479283 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
There are currently no known somatic SNVs or InDels in the SUGCT gene.

### Related Disease
SCOT deficiency is the primary disease associated with SUCGT gene mutations. This disorder is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner and can lead to a wide range of symptoms including developmental delays, seizures, and metabolic acidosis.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for SCOT deficiency typically involves a specialized diet, often low in certain fats and proteins, to limit the buildup of toxic byproducts in the body. The prognosis for individuals with this disorder varies depending on the severity of the symptoms and how well the disease is managed.

### Drug Response
There is currently no known drug therapy for SCOT deficiency.

### Related Papers
- "Succinyl-CoA:3-ketoacid CoA transferase (SCOT): human cDNA cloning, human chromosomal mapping to 13q, and mutation detection in a SCOT-deficient patient." [PMID: 11668417]
- "Succinate-glutaryl CoA transferase (SCOT) deficiency: clinical course in two Italian siblings." [PMID: 18764238]

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**