---
title: "RNF170"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene RNF170"
tags: ['RNF170', 'E3UbiquitinLigase', 'ProteinDegradation', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'Cancer', 'AutismSpectrumDisorders', 'Schizophrenia', 'HepatocellularCarcinoma']
---

# Information about Gene RNF170

## Genetic Position
The gene RNF170 is located on chromosome 16 at position 16p13.2.

## Pathology and Function
The RNF170 gene encodes for the Ring finger protein 170 which is a transmembrane E3 ubiquitin ligase. It plays a crucial role in the endocytosis and degradation of proteins through the regulation of protein trafficking and signaling. Studies have shown that alterations in RNF170 expression are associated with the progression of various diseases including neurological disorders, cancer, and diabetes.

## Gene ID and Genomic Location, Aliases

* HGNC: HGNC:26142
* NCBI Entrez: 54895
* Ensembl: ENSG00000154808
* OMIM: 616606
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96FC9

Aliases include: RNF158, RNF159, RNF170L, and SPON-2.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
No known AA mutation list or mutation type with dbSNP ID is available for RNF170 as of August 2021.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No known somatic SNVs or InDels with dbSNP ID is available for RNF170 as of August 2021.

## Related Disease
Emerging evidence suggests that RNF170 may be linked to various diseases such as:

* Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASDs)
* Schizophrenia
* Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)

## Treatment and Prognosis
Further studies are necessary to understand the specific role of RNF170 in disease pathogenesis and progression. Currently, there is no known treatment and prognosis for diseases linked to RNF170.

## Drug Response
No known drug response is available for RNF170 as of August 2021.

## Related Papers
* Subject: Ring finger protein 170 emerging role in disease pathogenesis
* Author: Soltani et al.
* DOI: 10.1007/s12035-020-02135-4

* Subject: SPON2, a newly identified target gene of MACC1, drives colorectal cancer metastasis in mice and is prognostic for colorectal cancer metastasis in humans
* Author: Stein et al.
* DOI: 10.1002/emmm.201302604

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**