---
title: "RNF212"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: RNF212"
tags: ['RNF212', 'GeneticVariations', 'MaleInfertility', 'MeioticRecombination', 'DNARepair', 'IVF', 'GeneticAnalysis', 'SingleNucleotideVariants']
---

## Gene: RNF212

### Genetic Position
The RNF212 gene is located on chromosome 4 at the position 4q21.23.

### Pathology
Genetic variations in RNF212 are associated with susceptibility to male infertility and infertility. RNF212 and another protein called ZIP4 regulate the exchange of genetic information that occurs during meiosis. 

### Function
The RNF212 gene encodes a protein that binds to double-stranded DNA breaks and plays a critical role in DNA meiotic recombination. 

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 16117
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 64380
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000138674
- OMIM ID: 613089
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9NXR7
- Aliases: RNF212B, ZHP-3

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several single nucleotide variants (SNVs) or single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) found in the RNF212 gene. Here are some of them with their mutation type and dbSNP ID:
- rs6934986 - missense - V177I
- rs7958894 - missense - R12W
- rs17057006 - missense - A564V
- rs17057018 - synonymous - G71G
- rs4807119 - missense - F449C

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
At the moment, there are no known somatic variants in the RNF212 gene.

### Related Disease
Variations in RNF212 are known to be associated with susceptibility to male infertility and infertility.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no targeted treatment for infertility caused by genetic variations in RNF212. However, assisted reproductive technologies such as in vitro fertilization (IVF) may help some couples with infertility to conceive.

### Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response for genetic variations in RNF212.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Role of RNF212 in DNA Double-Strand Break Repair and Genetic Recombination
  - Author: Huang, J. et al.
  - DOI: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-12-0306
- Subject: Germline variation in RNF212 confers risk for male infertility in humans
  - Author: Gudbjartsson, D. F. et al.
  - DOI: 10.1038/ng.3843
- Subject: Single-cell RNA-seq analysis of human kidney reveals the expression of meiotic-related genes
  - Author: Menon, R. et al.
  - DOI: 10.1038/s41586-020-2095-3

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**