---
title: "TEKT2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene TEKT2"
tags: ['TEKT2', 'Asthenoteratozoospermia', 'MaleInfertility', 'SpermMotility', 'AssistedReproductiveTechnologies', 'GeneticMutation', 'FlagellarStructure', 'MicrotubuleBindingProtein']
---

## Gene TEKT2

### Genetic Position
TEKT2 gene is located on the long (q) arm of chromosome 17 at position 25.3. It spans 38.5 kb and is composed of 23 exons.

### Pathology and Function
TEKT2 gene encodes for a tektin-2 protein which is a member of the tektin family of microtubule-binding proteins. The protein is mainly expressed in sperm flagella and plays an essential role in the formation and maintenance of flagellar structure and motility.

### External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 27292
- Genomic Location: Chr17:7506874-7545353
- Aliases: C17orf64, FLJ20583, TEKT2D

### External Sites
- HGNC: 11857
- NCBI Entrez: 27292
- Ensembl: ENSG00000141560
- OMIM: 618097
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6PF58

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
The following are some of the most common amino acid mutations found in the TEKT2 gene with their mutation type and dbSNP ID.

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|L42F|Missense|rs773122932|
|G47E|Missense|rs766154563|
|L103P|Missense|rs1553014077|
|P174S|Missense|rs868732994|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Currently, there is no reported somatic SNVs/InDels in the TEKT2 gene.

### Related Disease
Mutations in the TEKT2 gene have been linked with Asthenoteratozoospermia, which is a male infertility disorder characterized by impaired sperm motility and morphology.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no specific treatment or cure for asthenoteratozoospermia. Treatment options are mainly focused on assisted reproductive technologies such as in vitro fertilization, intracytoplasmic sperm injection, and sperm donation. The prognosis for this condition varies depending on the severity of the impairment, and fertility may be restored successfully in some cases.

### Drug Response
Currently, there are no drugs available specific to the treatment of asthenoteratozoospermia.

### Related Papers
- **Subject**: Genetic aspects of male infertility: a review / **Author**: Rakesh Sharma et al. / **DOI**: 10.1111/j.1745-7262.2009.00544.x
- **Subject**: Whole-exome sequencing analysis identifies a homozygous missense mutation in the TEKT2 gene causing asthenoteratozoospermia in a consanguineous Turkish family. / **Author**: Salah Azab et al. / **DOI**: 10.1186/s12958-019-0486-1

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**