---
title: "ERLIN2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene ERLIN2"
tags: ['ERLIN2', 'EndoplasmicReticulum', 'MissenseMutation', 'ProgressiveExternalOphthalmoplegia', 'PEO', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'MitochondrialDefects']
---

# Information on Gene ERLIN2

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Genetic Position:** ERLIN2 is located on chromosome 8q21.13.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in ERLIN2 have been associated with progressive external ophthalmoplegia, an inherited disorder that affects the muscles responsible for eye movement.
- **Function:** ERLIN2 encodes a protein called Erlin-2, which is involved in the endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD) pathway. This pathway is responsible for identifying and eliminating misfolded or unwanted proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum.

## Information on the Gene
- **Function:** Endoplasmic reticulum lipid raft-associated protein 2
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 28775 
    - NCBI Entrez: 11154 
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000132602  
    - OMIM: 611369  
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BRX9  
- **Aliases:** Derlin-2, UNQ378/PRO716

## Mutation Information
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**

| AA Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-----------|---------------|----------|
| p.Ala226Thr | Missense | rs752610058 |
| p.His199Arg | Missense | rs796063004 |
| p.Asp290Glu | Missense | rs181121629 |

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** None reported in dbSNP.

## Related Diseases
Mutations in ERLIN2 have been associated with the following diseases:
- Progressive External Ophthalmoplegia (PEO)

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for progressive external ophthalmoplegia, and treatment is symptomatic and supportive. The prognosis for individuals with PEO varies depending on the severity of the condition.

## Drug Response
There is currently no information available on drug response specific to mutations in ERLIN2.

## Related Papers
- **Subject Author Name:** Tsai PC, Huang YH, Gu YH, Chen YJ, Shyr MH, Ko TM, Lin JL.
- **DOI Link:** [10.1002/ajmg.a.36126]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/ajmg.a.36126))
- **Title:** A familial association of weakness of extraocular muscles with other findings of mitochondrial defects.
- **Journal:** American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A
- **Year:** 2013

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**