---
title: "TRPC3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: TRPC3 "
tags: ['TRPC3', 'CalciumSignaling', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'CardiovascularDiseases', 'Mutation', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'PathologicalConditions', 'CationChannel']
---

# Gene Information: TRPC3 

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function:

**Genetic Position:** The TRPC3 gene is located at chromosome 4q27. It spans around 165.4 Kb with 6 exons. TRPC3 encodes for the Transient Receptor Potential Cation Channel Subfamily C Member 3. 

**Pathology:** The TRPC3 gene has been implicated in several diseases and pathological conditions. The dysfunction of TRPC3 is associated with cardiac hypertrophy, heart failure, pulmonary hypertension, and neurological disorders such as anxiety, depression, and cognitive decline. 

**Function:** TRPC3 is a non-selective calcium-permeable cation channel protein. It plays a vital role in various cellular functions such as neuronal excitability, smooth muscle contraction, and regulating calcium homeostasis. It is also involved in receptor-mediated signaling pathways, including G protein-coupled receptor signaling, and regulation of vascular tone.

## Gene Identifiers and Locations:

**External IDs for TRPC3 Gene:** 

- HGNC: 12313
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 7222
- Ensembl: ENSG00000138668
- OMIM: 602583
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13507

**Aliases:** CRACM1, TRP-3, TRPC3B, TRP3 

**Genomic Location:** GRCh38: Chromosome 4: 123,202,055-123,367,318

## Mutation Information:

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:** 
There are several SNVs and InDels reported for the TRPC3 gene, and some of them are listed below with their mutation types and dbSNP IDs:

Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID
-------- | ---- | --------
Gly86Arg | Missense | rs150173760
Asn230Ser | Missense | rs748054040
His426Gln | Missense | rs372664430
Lys608del | InDel | rs864309737

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

TRPC3 somatic mutations haven't been reported in any cancer types yet.

## Related Disease:

The TRPC3 gene is associated with different pathological conditions, and some of the significant diseases related to TRPC3 are:

- Neurological Disorders (Anxiety, depression, cognitive decline)
- Cardiac Hypertrophy
- Pulmonary Hypertension
- Heart Failure

## Treatment and Prognosis:

Targeting TRPC3 could be an essential therapeutic approach to manage several diseases related to calcium signaling and calcium-dependent pathways, such as neurological and cardiovascular complications. However, there is currently no approved treatment available that specifically targets the TRPC3 gene.

## Drug Response:

There is no known drug-response associated with mutations in the TRPC3 gene.

## Related Papers:

1. Subject: The TRPC3 signaling pathway and its potential as a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
   - Author: Chu JM, et al. 
   - DOI: 10.3390/molecules26082044

2. Subject: TRPC3 is detrimental to ischemic injury-induced brain endothelial cell death by promoting Ca2+-dependent cell death signals.
   - Author: Gao S, et al. 
   - DOI: 10.1007/s12035-020-02101-5

3. Subject: Emerging Role of TRP Channels and Calcium Signaling in Cardiovascular Diseases.
   - Author: Singh VP, et al. 
   - DOI: 10.3390/ijms21020444

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**