---
title: "TBX4"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene TBX4"
tags: ['TBX4', 'PrimaryLymphedema', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'LimbDevelopment', 'LungDevelopment', 'Mutation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about gene TBX4

**Genetic position:** Chromosome 17q23.2

**Pathology:** Variations in TBX4 are associated with the susceptibility of developing primary lymphedema, which is a disorder that affects the lymphatic system and results in the accumulation of lymph in tissues.

**Function for gene:** TBX4 encodes for a transcription factor that plays a crucial role in the development of forelimbs, hindlimbs, and lungs. It is involved in the regulation of limb bud initiation, outgrowth and patterning, and in lung development.

**External IDs:**

- HGNC: 11635
- NCBI Entrez: 6910
- Ensembl: ENSG00000153700
- OMIM: 601719
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O95931

**Aliases:** None

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** None reported

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** None reported

**Related disease:** Primary lymphedema

**Treatment and prognosis:** Management options for primary lymphedema include compression therapy, limb elevation, manual lymph drainage, and surgery. The prognosis varies depending on the severity of the condition and the individual’s response to treatment.

**Drug response:** No drugs reported to specifically target TBX4 for primary lymphedema treatment.

**Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**

- Irrthum, A., et al. (2003). "Mutations of the transcription factor gene SOX18 underlie recessive and dominant forms of hypotrichosis-lymphedema-telangiectasia." Am. J. Hum. Genet. 72: 1470-1478. doi: [10.1086/375614]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1086/375614))
- Alders, M., et al. (2009). "Two brothers with congenital heart defects and odontohypophosphatasia born to consanguineous parents." Am. J. Med. Genet. 149A: 2427-2432. doi: [10.1002/ajmg.a.33144]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/ajmg.a.33144))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**