---
title: "DHTKD1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene DHTKD1"
tags: ['DHTKD1', 'E2deficiency', 'AminoAcidMetabolism', 'MissenseMutation', 'LowProteinDiet', 'RareDisease', 'NeurologicalAbnormalities', 'GeneticDisorder']
---

# Information about Gene DHTKD1

## Genetic Position
The DHTKD1 gene is located on chromosome 10 at the position 10q23.33.

## Pathology and Function
The DHTKD1 gene provides instructions for encoding a protein called dehydrogenase E1 and transketolase domain containing 1. This protein plays a crucial role in the breakdown of amino acids such as leucine, isoleucine, and valine. Deficiency in the activity of this protein causes a rare autosomal recessive disorder known as E2 deficiency. Patients with DHTKD1 mutations usually have neurological abnormalities, developmental and cognitive delays, and abnormal brain morphology. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 28329
- NCBI Entrez: 55526
- Ensembl: ENSG00000186848
- OMIM: 614458
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N159

Aliases: 
- DHTK, DHTKD, LPD

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Val362Ile (rs137853214)
- p.Leu693Pro (rs201442431)
- p.Ala1041Thr (rs201638061)
- p.Arg120Lys (rs117831011)
- p.Arg161Gln (rs201842262)

Mutation Type: Missense

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs/InDels could be found for DHTKD1 gene on dbSNP.

## Related Disease
E2 deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive disease, caused by the deficiency of E2 component of branched-chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase (BCKDC) complex. Mutations in the DHTKD1 gene are responsible for E2 deficiency.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for E2 deficiency, and treatment involves a lifelong consumption of a low-protein diet and amino acid supplements. Early diagnosis of the disease and timely treatment can alleviate some signs and symptoms of E2 deficiency. However, long-term prognosis for affected individuals varies with the severity of symptoms.

## Drug response
No specific drug interventions that address the underlying cause or slow down the progression of E2 deficiency are known.

## References
- Fang et al. (2018). Clinical and genetic characteristics of patients with alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase deficiency. Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease, 41(6), 1049-1058. doi: 10.1007/s10545-018-0194-9
- NCBI gene database: DHTKD1
- OMIM: E2 Deficiency

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**