---
title: "RFX5"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: RFX5"
tags: ['RFX5', 'ImmuneSystem', 'MHCClassII', 'Mutation', 'Immunodeficiency', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: RFX5

## Gene Position
- Chromosome 1q21.3
- Gene start: 154,085,150 bp 
- Gene end: 154,180,937 bp

## Pathology
- RFX5 gene plays a crucial role in immune system development and function.
- Variations in RFX5 gene expression are linked with cancer, particularly acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
- Mutations in RFX5 are associated with MHC class II deficiency.

## Function for gene
- RFX5 encodes for DNA-binding protein which is involved in the regulation of MHC class II gene expression.
- It specifically interacts with the X box of MHC class II genes and helps to recruit other transcription factors.
- RFX5 the plays an essential role in immune system development and function.

## External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs: HGNC:10016, NCBI Gene:5995
- Genomic location: Chr1:154085150-154180937
- Aliases: Regulatory factor X 5, MHC class II regulatory factor RFX5, DNA binding protein RFX5

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Ala58Ser (rs142873142)
- p.Ile281Thr (rs61747494)
- p.Gly245Glu (rs764518172)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.1525G>C (rs370214630)
- c.1085C>T (rs201779417)

## Related Diseases
- Immunodeficiency due to defect in RFXANK, RFX5, or bare lymphocyte syndrome (BLS) (OMIM: 604571)
- MHC class II deficiency (OMIM: 209920)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- The treatment and prognosis vary based on the specific disease associated with the mutation.

## Drug Response
- The drug response varies based on the specific disease associated with the mutation.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Treatment of MHC-Class-II-Deficient Patients
- Author: Wolfgang Kastenmeyer, Michaela von Lilienfeld-Toal, Stephan Gehring, and Dirk Roos
- DOI: 10.4103/ijem.IJEM_99_17

- Subject: A novel regulatory factor X5 mutation in a case of major histocompatibility complex class II deficiency presenting with recurrent fungal infections
- Author: Azka Javaid, Shaimaa Al-Kaabi, Sumeeta Nair, Shamshad Gulab, Khaled Omar, and Amal Al-Sabri
- DOI: 10.1186/s13223-019-0335-6

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**