---
title: "SNORD115@"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: SNORD115@"
tags: ['SNORD115', 'PraderWilliSyndrome', 'NonCodingRNA', 'RibosomalRNA', 'GeneticDisorder', 'SymptomManagement', 'GrowthHormoneTreatment', 'IntellectualDevelopment']
---

## Gene: SNORD115@

### Genetic Position
SNORD115@ is located within the non-coding region of human chromosome 15q11-q13.

### Pathology and Function
SNORD115@ is a small nucleolar RNA gene that produces the SNORD115 snoRNA. Mutations in SNORD115@ have been implicated in Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS), a genetic disorder that affects appetite, growth, and some intellectual functions. SNORD115 is involved in the processing and modification of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and is essential for proper brain development and function.

### Gene Information
- Function: Small nucleolar RNA
- External IDs: HGNC:30100, NCBI Entrez: 100529383, Ensembl: ENSG00000275073, OMIM: 608147, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: NA
- Aliases: SNORD115, SNORD115-1, HBII-52

### Mutation Information
- AA mutation list and mutation type:
SNORD115@ is a non-coding RNA gene, so there are no amino acid mutations associated with it.
- dbSNP ID: NA

### Somatic Mutations
- somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
Since SNORD115@ is non-coding RNA, there are no known somatic mutations.

### Related Diseases
Mutations in SNORD115@ have been associated with Prader-Willi syndrome, a rare genetic disorder that affects appetite, growth, metabolism, and intellectual development.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment for PWS, but management of the symptoms can improve quality of life. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the symptoms and the quality of care.

### Drug Response
There are no specific drugs targeting SNORD115@ or PWS, but therapies such as growth hormone treatment, nutritional management, and behavior support can improve symptoms.

### References
- Runte M, Varon R, Horn D, et al. Phenotypic variability in 39 patients with Prader-Willi syndrome and various chromosomal and molecular subtypes. Eur J Hum Genet. 2005;13: 162-170. doi: [10.1038/sj.ejhg.5201301]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.ejhg.5201301))
- Cassidy SB, Schwartz S. Prader-Willi syndrome. In: Pagon RA, Adam MP, Ardinger HH et al., editors. GeneReviews®. Seattle (WA): University of Washington, Seattle; 1993-2021. PMID: 20301387.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**