---
title: "AMACR"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene AMACR"
tags: ['AMACR', 'GeneFunction', 'CancerBiomarker', 'SomaticMutations', 'ProstateCancer', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about gene AMACR

## Genetic Position
AMACR (Alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase) is a gene located on the human chromosome 5q11.2-q12.1.

## Pathology
Mutations in the AMACR gene have been associated with the development of several types of cancer, including prostate, breast, and colorectal cancer. In particular, overexpression of AMACR has been identified as a potential biomarker for prostate cancer.

## Function
The AMACR gene encodes an enzyme, alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase, which is involved in the metabolism of branched-chain fatty acids. This enzyme catalyzes the interconversion of two isomers of 2-methylacyl-CoA, which are intermediates in the beta-oxidation of branched-chain fatty acids.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 471
- NCBI Entrez: 23600
- Ensembl: ENSG00000112824
- OMIM: 604489
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UHK6

Aliases: P504S, RACE, AMACRD, M-P504S

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Ser190Arg rs41296634
- p.Gly250Arg rs17886602
- p.Gly268Ser rs17886080
- p.Val377Met rs17886001

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNPs and InDels reported in the AMACR gene.
- c.734C>T rs11976168
- c.839A>G rs61757215
- c.874_875del rs138069120
- c.1050A>G rs2278143

## Related diseases
Mutations and overexpression of the AMACR gene have been associated with the development of several types of cancer, including prostate, breast, and colorectal cancer.

## Treatment and prognosis
Currently, there is no specific treatment targeting the AMACR gene. The prognosis and treatment options for patients with AMACR mutations depend on the specific type and stage of cancer. Early detection and treatment of cancer can improve the prognosis for patients.

## Drug response
There are no drugs that specifically target the AMACR gene. However, several drugs are used in the treatment of prostate cancer, including androgen deprivation therapy and chemotherapy.

## Related papers
- Author: Rubin MA, Zerkowski MP, Camp RL, Kuefer R, Hofer MD, Chinnaiyan AM, Rimm DL
  Title: Quantitative expression analysis of alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase (AMACR) in nonneoplastic prostatic tissue
  Journal: The American journal of surgical pathology
  DOI: 10.1097/01.pas.0000146016.85828.3d
- Author: Rubin MA, Zhou M, Dhanasekaran SM, Varambally S, Barrette TR, Sanda MG, Pienta KJ, Ghosh D, Chinnaiyan AM
  Title: Alpha-Methylacyl coenzyme A racemase as a tissue biomarker for prostate cancer
  Journal: JAMA
  DOI: 10.1001/jama.289.9.2695

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**