---
title: "PDHX"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PDHX"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'PDHXGene', 'PyruvateDehydrogenaseComplex', 'LeighSyndrome', 'PDHA', 'Thiamine', 'NeurologicalDegeneration', 'Schizophrenia']
---

# Information about Gene PDHX

## Gene Overview
PDHX gene is located on chromosome 11. It encodes the Pyruvate Dehydrogenase Complex (PDC) E1 component subunit X, which plays a crucial role in the tricarboxylic acid cycle and oxidative phosphorylation pathway. 

## Function
PDHX is responsible for converting pyruvate to acetyl-CoA, which enters the tricarboxylic acid cycle to produce ATP via oxidative phosphorylation. 

## External IDs, Genomic Location, Aliases
- External IDs: HGNC:8802, NCBI Entrez:5164, Ensembl:ENSG00000110444, OMIM:608769, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P51649
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 11
- Aliases: PDHX, E1X, IPD1, PDX1, PYX

## AA Mutation
- No AA mutation associated with PDHX gene has been reported yet.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- No somatic SNVs/InDels associated with PDHX gene has been reported yet.

## Related Diseases
Mutations in PDHX gene are associated with the following disease(s):
- Pyruvate Dehydrogenase E1-Alpha Deficiency (PDHA)
- Leigh Syndrome

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for PDHX-associated disorders. Treatment option includes the administration of thiamine, a cofactor of the PDH complex. The prognosis for PDHX-associated disorders is generally poor due to the progressive neurological degeneration associated with these conditions. 

## Drug Response
There has been no report on drug response associated with PDHX gene.

## Related Papers
- [Chen et al., 2020. Mutations in PDHX impair the subcellular localization and pyruvate dehydrogenase activity of the enzyme causing Leigh syndrome](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12915-020-00900-5))
- [Cameron et al., 2011. Pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphatase regulatory subunit expression in a genotyped cohort of patients with schizophrenia](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.schres.2010.12.008))
- [Hao et al., 2019. Report of three cases with pyruvate dehydrogenase complex deficiency and literature review](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.braindev.2018.08.010))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**