---
title: "TRIP11"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene TRIP11"
tags: ['TRIP11', 'Golgi', 'ProteinSorting', 'CellPolarity', 'NonDiseaseAssociated', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'SecretoryPathway']
---

# Gene TRIP11

## Genetic Position
TRIP11 is located on chromosome 14q32.32.

## Pathology
There are currently no documented pathological conditions associated with mutations in the TRIP11 gene.

## Function
Also known as Golgi-associated PDZ and coiled-coil motif-containing protein (GOPC), the TRIP11 gene encodes for a protein involved in trafficking and sorting of proteins to the Golgi apparatus. The protein is also implicated in the regulation of cell polarity and proliferation.

## External IDs, Aliases and Genomic location
- HGNC: 17546
- NCBI Gene: 57154
- Ensembl: ENSG00000076918
- OMIM: 606813
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H4B4
- Aliases: GOPC, PIST
- Genomic location: Chromosome 14: 99,587,847-99,796,461

## AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are many variants of TRIP11 that have been reported in dbSNP. However, none of these are associated with disease. A non-exhaustive list of variants includes:

| AA mutation | Mutation type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|----------------|-----------|
|L1430P| Missense | rs201328299|
|E913X| Nonsense | rs766007676|
|G687S| Missense | rs199720169|
|C868R| Missense | rs750982862|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no somatic mutations documented in the TRIP11 gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in TRIP11 are not currently known to be associated with any disease.

## Treatment and prognosis
As there are no known disease associations for mutations in TRIP11, treatment and prognosis are not applicable.

## Drug response
As there are no known disease associations for mutations in TRIP11, drug response is not applicable.

## Related Papers
- Subject: TRIP11 gene function in the secretory pathway 
  - Author: Luana Fischer, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1083/jcb.200402096)
  
- Subject: TRIP11 involvement in non-small-cell lung cancer 
  - Author: Furong Sun, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lungcan.2019.04.021)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**