---
title: "PRKG1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: PRKG1"
tags: ['PRKG1', 'cGMP-dependent_protein_kinase', 'hypertension', 'aneurysm', 'cancer', 'mutation', 'drug_response', 'prognosis']
---

# Gene: PRKG1
---

## Genomic Position
```
Chromosome: 10
Start Position: 97775270 bp
End Position: 97918730 bp
```

## Pathology
PRKG1 has been associated with several diseases such as hypertension, abdominal aortic aneurysm, and cancer. The gene has also been shown to play a role in smooth muscle relaxation, platelet activation, and cardiac contractility.

## Function for gene
PRKG1 encodes a protein called cGMP-dependent protein kinase 1. This enzyme phosphorylates downstream targets in response to elevated levels of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). Its function varies depending on the cell type, but overall is involved in smooth muscle relaxation, platelet aggregation, and cardiac contractility.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 9393
- NCBI Entrez: 5593
- Ensembl: ENSG00000138232
- OMIM: 176894
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13976
- Aliases: cGKI, PKG, PRKG1B

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg177Gln (rs113893307)
   - Missense
- p.Ala469Val (rs56341029)
   - Missense
- p.Val290Met (rs137853612)
   - Missense

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- p.Asp686Asn (rs267607018)
   - Missense
- p.Gly413Ser (rs267607017)
   - Missense

## Related disease
- Hypertension
- Abdominal aortic aneurysm
- Cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no known specific treatment for PRKG1-related diseases. Prognosis can vary depending on the specific disease and severity of the condition.

## Drug Response
There is limited information available on drug response of PRKG1-related diseases.

## Related Papers
- Author: Dey NB, Ghosh SK
  - Title: The role of cGMP-dependent protein kinase in human health and disease
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2015.09.005
  
- Author: Lehti TM et al.
  - Title: PRKG1 gene mutations cause familial thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections associated with hypertension
  - DOI: 10.1038/ng.2324

- Author: Wang X et al.
  - Title: Association Between PRKG1 Gene Polymorphisms and Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Risk in a Chinese Population
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2018.12.020

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**