---
title: "CDC42"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: CDC42"
tags: ['CDC42', 'RhoGTPases', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Epilepsy', 'Schizophrenia', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'CongenitalHeartDisease', 'Fasudil']
---

# Gene: CDC42

## Information
- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 1q42.1 
- **Function for Gene:** This gene encodes a member of the Rho family of small GTPases, which are signaling molecules known to regulate essential cellular processes, including cytoskeletal organization, cell division, and establishment of cell polarity. The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the regulation of several signaling pathways related to cellular migration and immune response. 

- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC:1778
    - Entrez Gene: 998
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000070831
    - OMIM: 116952
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P60953
    
- **Aliases:** G25K GTPase, Cell division control protein 42 homolog, Small G protein, Rho family, CDC42 homolog

## Mutations
- **AA Mutation list with mutation type:** 
    - p.Tyr64Cys (missense)
    - p.Ser115Leu (missense)
    - p.Thr17Ala (missense)
    - p.Asp57His (missense) 
    - p.Arg66Cys (missense)

- **dbSNP ID:** 
    - rs121917786
    - rs121917784
    - rs121917787
    - rs80352250
    - rs121917785

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**
    - rs11057457
    - rs78578227
    
## Related Diseases
- Congenital heart disease
- Epilepsy 
- Intellectual disability
- Schizophrenia 
- Autism Spectrum Disorder

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no known cure for diseases caused by CDC42 mutations. Treatment is usually symptomatic and supportive, with the aim of addressing the specific needs of each patient.
 
## Drug Response
There are no drugs available that specifically target CDC42 mutations. However, some drugs targeting Rho GTPases in general, such as fasudil, could potentially be used to treat diseases caused by CDC42 mutations.

## References
- **Subject:** A CDC42 missense mutation causes a nonsyndromic intellectual disability
- **Author:** Saugier-Veber P, et al. 
- **DOI:** 10.1016/j.ajhg.2011.11.003

- **Subject:** Mutations in CDC42 are associated with a unique form of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy
- **Author:** Corbett MA, et al. 
- **DOI:** 10.1212/WNL.0000000000004711 

- **Subject:** Genomic Analysis Insights into a Novel Cerebrovascular Disease-Associated Gene Showing ICAM1 and ARHGAP29 Modulation
- **Author:** Lee MJ, et al.
- **DOI:** 10.3390/biomedicines8040118.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**