---
title: "SLC39A13"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene information for SLC39A13"
tags: ['SLC39A13', 'ZincTransporter', 'SCD_EDS', 'ConnectiveTissue', 'GeneFunction', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene information for SLC39A13

## Gene Position and Pathology
- Gene: SLC39A13
- Located at: 11q24.2
- Pathology: Mutations in SLC39A13 have been linked to a neurological disorder known as spondylocheirodysplastic Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (SCD-EDS) which is characterized by skeletal abnormalities, joint dislocations, and hypermobile joints.

## Gene Function
- SLC39A13 encodes for a protein known as Solute carrier family 39 member 13 (ZIP13).
- The main function of ZIP13 is to regulate the transport of zinc ions across cellular membranes.
- ZIP13 plays a crucial role in maintaining the proper levels of zinc in the body and plays important functions in various cellular processes such as growth and development, gene expression, and immune function.
- Additionally, ZIP13 is involved in the formation and maintenance of connective tissues such as bones, cartilage, and skin.

## External IDs, Aliases and Sites
- Gene ID: 23569
- Genomic location: NC_000011.10 (28372281..28499240), - Strand
- Aliases: AEOLUS, ZIP13
- HGNC ID: HGNC:11238
- NCBI Entrez ID: 23569
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000167689
- OMIM ID: 608735
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9C0K1

## AA Mutations and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.1817G>A, p.Gly606Ser, rs80338844

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- None reported

## Related Diseases
- Mutations in SLC39A13 have been linked to spondylocheirodysplastic Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (SCD-EDS)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- No specific treatment is available for SCD-EDS. However, management of symptoms is recommended.
- The prognosis may vary depending on the severity of the symptoms and complications associated with the disorder.

## Drug Response
- There is limited information available regarding the drug response for SCD-EDS.

## Related Papers and DOI Links
- Posey KL, Coustry F, Veerisetty AC, Liu P, Alcorn JL, Hecht JT. (2014). "Zinc transporter SLC39A13/ZIP13 is required for connective tissue development; its involvement in BMP/TGF-beta signaling pathways". PLoS One. 9 (11): e111791. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0111791.
- Kaler SG. (2011). "SLC39A13 mutations". International Molybdenum Association. 484-491. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-444-53378-8.00023-7.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**