---
title: "LCP1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: LCP1"
tags: ['LCP1', 'ActinCytoskeleton', 'CellMotility', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene: LCP1

### Pathology:
LCP1 or L-plastin is a gene that encodes a protein called L-plastin, which belongs to a family of actin-binding proteins. L-plastin is involved in the regulation of cytoskeletal organization, cell motility, and adhesion. Abnormal expression of LCP1 has been associated with various types of cancer, such as breast, prostate, and gastric cancer.

### Function:
The primary function of the LCP1 protein is to regulate the actin cytoskeleton, which is important for cell movement, cell shape, and cell division. L-plastin promotes the formation of actin bundles by crosslinking actin filaments, which results in increased cell motility.

### External IDs and Genomic Location:
- External IDs: HGNC:6538, NCBI Entrez:3936, Ensembl:ENSG00000174033, OMIM:153390, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P13796
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 13q14.3

### Mutation:
- AA Mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
 - R7H (rs11554854)
 - D65N (rs138747062)
 - S239R (rs3746665)
 - S272P (rs267607116)
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
 - c.79C>T (rs770202841)
 - c.413C>A (rs886037805)
 - c.437G>A (rs1015839331)

### Related Disease:
Abnormal expression of LCP1 has been linked to various types of cancer, such as breast, prostate, and gastric cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis:
The treatment and prognosis vary depending on the type and stage of cancer. Targeting LCP1 directly or indirectly may be a promising therapeutic approach.

### Drug Response:
Several drugs that target the actin cytoskeleton, such as latrunculin A and cytochalasin D, have been shown to inhibit the function of LCP1.

### References:
- Subject: L-plastin regulates cytoskeletal organization, cell motility, and adhesion in prostate cancer
- Author Name: Kaur H, Phillips-Mason PJ, Burden-Gulley SM, et al.
- DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1158/1535-7163.mct-13-0359)

- Subject: LCP1 overexpression promotes proliferation, migration and tumor growth in gastric cancer through activation of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway and MMPs secretion
- Author Name: Kong Y, Wu Y, Guo Y, et al.
- DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.canlet.2015.04.014)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**