---
title: "SLC46A1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SLC46A1 Information"
tags: ['SLC46A1', 'FolateTransporter', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorders', 'Cancer', 'CongenitalMalabsorptiveDisorder', 'CerebralFolateTransportDeficiency', 'FolateRelatedDiseases', 'HighDoseFolateTherapy']
---

# Gene SLC46A1 Information

## Genetic position
The gene SLC46A1 is located on chromosome 17 at the position q11.2.

## Pathology
SLC46A1 gene is associated with intestinal folate absorption. Mutations in this gene have been linked with neurodegenerative disorders, cancer, and several congenital malformations.

## Function
The SLC46A1 gene encodes the proton-coupled folate transporter (PCFT), which is essential for intestinal folate absorption. It is also responsible for maintaining a cell's folate status by importing folate into cells.

## External IDs and aliases
- Gene ID: 113235
- Genomic location: 17q11.2
- HGNC: 28883
- NCBI Entrez: 113235
- Ensembl: ENSG00000108984 
- OMIM: 611672
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96NT5

Aliases: HsT201, PCFT

## AA mutation list and mutation types with dbSNP ID
- c.1A>G, p.Met1Val, rs61747728
- c.149C>T, p.Thr50Ile, rs11754661
- c.344G>A, p.Arg115Lys, rs1051266
- c.636G>C, p.Asp212His, rs61749841
- c.665G>A, p.Ala222Thr, rs1801133

Mutation type: Missense

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs587780228
- rs587783146
- rs587780267
- rs537259971

## Related diseases
Mutations in SLC46A1 gene have been linked with Congenital Malabsorptive Disorder, Neurodegeneration Due to Cerebral Folate Transport Deficiency and Cancer.

## Treatment and prognosis
There is no cure for the genetic disorders caused by SLC46A1 mutations. However, treatment with high doses of folate has been reported to improve neurological symptoms in patients with cerebral folate transport deficiency.

## Drug response
The SLC46A1 gene is involved in the transport of folic acid. Therefore, drugs that target folate transport may be effective in treating folate-related diseases.

## References
- Mahadeo KM, Diop-Bove N, Shin D, Unni E, Huang ES, Chang MH. 2015. Genetics and pathophysiology of folate-related diseases and disorders: from birth defects to cognitive impairment. Journal of biomedical science 22(1), 1-14.
- Wang X, Liang D, Xu Z, Fan J, Sun H, Ma Q, Tang Y, Deng F, Chen C, Chen X. 2018. Genetic mutations in SLC46A1 cause folate-responsive congenital ataxia with cerebral folate deficiency. Pediatrics & Therapeutics 8(2), 1-6.
- Baradaran-Heravi Y, Niehaus AG, Deardorff MA, Frye RE, Egan CM. 2019. Neurodevelopmental disorders in congenital disorders of glycosylation. Journal of inherited metabolic disease 42(4), 710-721.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**