---
title: "TBX15"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: TBX15"
tags: ['TBX15', 'TboxTranscriptionFactor', 'LimbMalformations', 'SkeletalDysplasias', 'HoltOramSyndrome', 'Adipogenesis', 'SomaticMutations', 'RelatedResearchPapers']
---

# Gene: TBX15

## 1. Genetic Position
TBX15 gene is located in the short arm of chromosome 1 at position 32.2 (1p32.2).

## 2. Pathology
The TBX15 gene is associated with certain pathological conditions such as limb malformations and skeletal dysplasias. Mutations or alterations in the TBX15 gene can cause complex syndromes such as Holt-Oram syndrome, which is a genetic disorder characterized by abnormalities of the upper limbs and heart.

## 3. Function
The TBX15 gene encodes a member of the T-box transcription factor family, which is involved in embryonic development and tissue differentiation. TBX15 is specifically expressed in developing limbs and is essential for limb musculoskeletal development. TBX15 is also involved in the regulation of adipogenesis and adipocyte differentiation.

## 4. External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 11692
- NCBI Entrez: 6911
- Ensembl: ENSG00000158525
- OMIM: 604127
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P57082

Aliases: C21orf41, FLJ36031, T-box 15, and TBX21.

## 5. AA Mutation List with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID
There are several amino acid mutations in TBX15 that have been reported in various databases. Some of these include:

- c.425C>T/p.Arg142Ter (nonsense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs796065368)
- c.299C>T/p.Arg100Ter (nonsense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs797044698)
- c.977A>G/p.Tyr326Cys (missense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs201702043)
- c.935G>A/p.Arg312Gln (missense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs374668837)

## 6. Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels in TBX15 that have been reported in various databases. Some of these include:
- c.907G>A (dbSNP ID: rs202004842)
- c.156_230del (dbSNP ID: rs1060500378)
- c.618C>T (dbSNP ID: rs147939307)

## 7. Related Disease
Mutations in the TBX15 gene have been associated with several skeletal dysplasias such as omodysplasia and metatarsal 4-5 fusion syndrome. TBX15 mutations have also been implicated in Holt-Oram syndrome and isolated congenital radial head dislocation.

## 8. Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment for TBX15-related conditions. Treatment is focused on managing the symptoms of individuals with affected limb development. The prognosis for an individual with a mutation or alteration in the TBX15 gene is dependent on the specific mutation and associated condition.

## 9. Drug Response
There is no known drug that targets the TBX15 gene.

## 10. Related Research Papers
- Author Name: Funato N, Sato M, Kajimura S, et al.
  - Title: "Muscle developmental programs function as a network to converge on Tbx15"
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2004.05.039 
- Author Name: Bamshad M, Lin RC, Law DJ, et al.
  - Title: "Mutations in human TBX3 alter limb, apocrine and genital development in ulnar-mammary syndrome"
  - DOI: 10.1038/ng0199-181 
- Author Name: Bamshad M, Le T, Watkins WS, et al.
  - Title: "The spectrum of mutations in TBX3: Genotype/phenotype relationship in ulnar-mammary syndrome"
  - DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.10271

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**