---
title: "TEAD1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: TEAD1"
tags: ['TEAD1', 'GeneExpression', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'GeneticDisease', 'CRISPR', 'ChorioretinalAtrophy', 'CornealDystrophy', 'Glaucoma']
---

# Gene: TEAD1

TEAD1 gene is located on chromosome 11 at the position 11q22.2. It is also known as transcriptional enhancer factor TEF-1. This gene encodes a transcription factor that belongs to the TEAD family of proteins. 

## Function:
TEAD1 plays a crucial role in the regulation of gene expression, particularly in cell proliferation and differentiation, embryonic development, tissue homeostasis, and tumorigenesis. It interacts with various other proteins and cofactors and binds to specific DNA sequences to regulate gene expression. 

## External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 11748
- NCBI Entrez: 7003
- Ensembl: ENSG00000135094 
- OMIM: 601953
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P28347

Aliases: TCF-1, TCF1

## AA Mutation list and Mutation type with dbSNP ID:
- c.317G>A(p.Pro106Pro) - synonymous mutation - rs199762860
- c.411C>T(p.Ala137Val) - non-synonymous mutation - rs150124810

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- c.203C>T(p.Pro68Ser) - rs770411323
- c.1042A>G(p.His348Arg) - rs778275191

## Related Diseases:
Mutations in TEAD1 gene have been associated with 
- Sveinsson's chorioretinal atrophy
- Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy
- Primary Open Angle Glaucoma (POAG)

## Treatment and Prognosis:
Since there is no known cure for genetic diseases resulting from mutations in TEAD1 gene, treatment options are limited to symptomatic relief. However, ongoing research is exploring gene-editing techniques such as CRISPR/Cas9 to correct the mutations and possibly cure the disease. The prognosis depends on the severity of the disease and the individual's response to treatment.

## Drug Response:
No data available on drug response associated with mutations in TEAD1.

## Related papers:
- Sveinsson's chorioretinal atrophy: a review and update to phenotype-genotype correlations and prevalence estimation. - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/mgg3.163)
- Mutations in the TEAD1 gene are associated with Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1167/iovs.14-15174)
- Genetic analysis of TEAD1 and KDR genes in a Chinese population with high-tension primary open angle glaucoma. - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1080/00071668.2019.1700666)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**