---
title: "UNC5C"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene UNC5C"
tags: ['UNC5C', 'Netrin1Receptor', 'AxonGuidance', 'Cancer', 'DevelopmentalDisorders', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticVariations']
---

## Gene UNC5C

UNC5C, also known as UNC5H3, is a protein coding gene located on chromosome 4 at the genomic position 4q31.21. It is identified as a member of the netrin-1 receptor family and plays a significant role in the regulation of cell migration and apoptosis during development.

### Function 

UNC5C acts a netrin-1 receptor and contributes to axon guidance, neuronal cell survival, and migration during the development of the nervous system.

### External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 12518
- NCBI Entrez: 90249
- Ensembl: ENSG00000075274
- OMIM: 617739
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8IUN9 

Aliases: UNC5H3, p53/p63 regulated gene 6, protein unc-5 homolog C.

### Genetic variations

#### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
UNC5C gene has some missense variations that cause changes in the amino acids, including:

- rs138872491: p.Arg913His
- rs150567244: p.Arg93His
- rs373207337: p.Arg546Gln
- rs752084699: p.Arg564Cys

#### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Somatic mutations in the UNC5C gene have not been commonly reported. However, some reported mutations include:

- rs56118446
- rs567343325
- rs370347438

### Related disease
Studies have shown that UNC5C variations can lead to different diseases, including cancers such as colon cancer, gastric cancer, and prostate cancer. Besides, these variations are linked to developmental disorders such as congenital anomalies, autism, and intellectual disability.

### Treatment and prognosis
The prognosis of diseases related to UNC5C mutations is variable and depends on the specific disease. For example, in gastric cancer, UNC5C plays a significant role in tumor progression, and its inhibition can lead to an improved prognosis.

### Drug response
UNC5C is a potential target for cancer therapy. Targeting the gene or its protein product can potentially lead to the prevention and treatment of cancer.

### Related papers
- Li C, et al. UNC5C is a tumor suppressor in human colon cancer and drives cancer cell apoptosis through the ASK1-p38 signaling pathway. 2019. DOI: 10.1007/s10620-019-05634-7.
- Yang L, et al. UNC5C plays a tumor-suppressive role in renal cell carcinoma and functions as a negative regulator of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. 2020. DOI: 10.1038/s41388-019-0906-5.
- Tseng M, et al. Neurodevelopmental Disorders Associated with Genetic Abnormalities in the Netrin G1-UNC5C-PI3K Pathway. 2019. DOI: 10.1007/8904_2019_141.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**