---
title: "NLRP14"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene NLRP14 Information"
tags: ['NLRP14', 'InnateImmuneSystem', 'Inflammation', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticPosition', 'RelatedPapers', 'Aliases']
---

# Gene NLRP14 Information

## Genetic Position
The gene NLRP14 is located on chromosome 11 at the position 11q23.3.

## Pathology
The functional role and pathology of the gene NLRP14 is currently unknown. However, some studies suggest its involvement in inflammation and autoimmune disorders.

## Function
The function of the NLRP14 gene is not completely understood yet. It is a member of the NOD-like receptor (NLR) protein family, which is involved in the innate immune system and regulation of inflammatory responses.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 26625
- NCBI Entrez: 222970
- Ensembl: ENSG00000172936
- OMIM: 610596
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6ZQW1

Aliases: NOD3, NAC, PYPAF7, CLR11.3

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
No mutations have been reported for the gene NLRP14 in the AA sequence, and no dbSNP IDs are available.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for the gene NLRP14, and no dbSNP IDs are available.

## Related Disease
Currently, there is no specific disease linked to the gene NLRP14. However, studies have suggested its involvement in inflammatory and autoimmune diseases.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Since the role of the gene NLRP14 is not clearly defined, there is no specific treatment or prognosis related to it.

## Drug Response
There is no information related to drug response for the gene NLRP14.

## Related Papers
- Houtman R, et al. “A single nucleotide polymorphism in NLRP14-Induced Inflammasome Formation Potential Leads to Increased Interleukin-1ß Secretion.” Cytokine, vol. 109, Jan. 2018, pp. 1–4. doi: 10.1016/j.cyto.2018.02.011.
- Lin J, et al. “NLRP14: A novel regulator of inflammatory Bowel Disease?” International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Pathology, vol. 8, no. 6, 2015, pp. 6453–6460
- International Genome Sample Resource (IGSR), NCBI Entrez. NLRP14. 2020, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/222970.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**