---
title: "CTCF"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene CTCF"
tags: ['CTCF', 'ChromatinArchitecture', 'GeneRegulation', 'Cancer', 'MissenseMutations', 'SomaticMutations', 'Epigenetics', 'TranscriptionFactor']
---

## Information about gene CTCF

### 1. Genetic Position
The gene CTCF is located on the human chromosome 16 at the position 32.13.

### 2. Pathology
There are currently no known pathologies associated with alterations in the CTCF gene. However, it has been found that changes in chromatin structure resulting from altered CTCF binding can lead to the development of various cancers.

### 3. Function
The CTCF gene encodes for a highly conserved transcription factor that plays a crucial role in the establishment and maintenance of chromatin architecture. It is involved in various cellular processes including gene regulation, DNA repair, and genome organization.

### 4. External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 2503
- NCBI Entrez: 10664
- Ensembl: ENSG00000089053
- OMIM: 604167
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P49711

Aliases: CCCTC-binding factor, 11-zinc finger protein, and Transcriptional repressor CTCF.

### 5. AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are various mutations that have been identified in the CTCF gene. Some of the most common ones include:

| AA change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| E68K | Missense | rs372345723 |
| R217Q | Missense | rs367543161 |
| R385W | Missense | rs864309634 |
| E343K | Missense | rs745372543 |

### 6. Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic mutations that have been identified in the CTCF gene in various cancers. Some of them are:

| SNV/InDel | dbSNP ID | Cancer Type |
| --- | --- | --- |
| G1344S | rs781824703 | Lung Adenocarcinoma |
| G1321E | rs764200601 | Breast Invasive Carcinoma|
| Y342C | rs774352451 | Liver Hepatocellular Carcinoma |

### 7. Related Diseases
Currently, there are no known medical conditions or diseases that are solely caused by mutations in the CTCF gene. However, alterations in CTCF binding have been implicated in the development of various cancers.

### 8. Treatment and Prognosis
As there are no known medical conditions that are caused by mutations in the CTCF gene, there are no treatments or prognoses specific to these mutations.

### 9. Drug Response
There is currently no available information on drug response specific to mutations in the CTCF gene.

### 10. Related Papers
- *CTCF: Master Weaver of the Genome* by Wei Cui, et al. DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2020.00939
- *CTCF in Epigenetic Regulation of Chromatin Structure: An Update* by Muhammad Arshad, et al. DOI: 10.3390/ijms22010475

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**