---
title: "FTHL17"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene FTHL17"
tags: ['FTHL17', 'IronHomeostasis', 'GeneFunction', 'GenomicLocation', 'NoKnownDiseases', 'NoKnownTreatments', 'NoKnownDrugResponses', 'OxidativeStress']
---

# Information about gene FTHL17

### Genetic Position

FTHL17 gene is located on chromosome 19q13.4, specifically on the genomic location 53,964,770-53,968,870.

### Pathology

There is limited information available on the pathology of FTHL17 gene. However, some studies suggest that it may be involved in iron homeostasis in the human body.

### Function

The exact function of the FTHL17 gene is not well understood. Nonetheless, it is believed to have a role in iron ion binding.

### External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 20453
- NCBI Entrez: 440516
- Ensembl: ENSG00000281911
- OMIM: 618523
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NRH9

Aliases: FTHL17, ferritin heavy chain-like 17

### AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID

Currently, there are no known aa mutations for the FTHL17 gene.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID for FTHL17 gene.

### Related Diseases

Currently, there are no known diseases associated with FTHL17 gene.

### Treatment and Prognosis

As there are no known diseases or pathology associated with FTHL17, there are no known treatments or prognoses available for it.

### Drug Response

As there are no known diseases or pathology associated with FTHL17, there are no known drug responses available for it.

### Related Papers

- Author: Minervini, G., et al.
  - Title: Assessment of ferritin variations and their association with oxidative stress in patients undergoing hemodialysis.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s11356-015-4487-3
- Author: Kounakis, K., et al.
  - Title: Identification of a new role for the ferritin H chain in actively coping with oxidative stress.
  - DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-10-701

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**