---
title: "DOC2A"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene DOC2A"
tags: ['DOC2A', 'NeurotransmitterRelease', 'BrainFunction', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticInformation', 'Neuroscience', 'Protein', 'Mutation']
---

## Information about gene DOC2A

### Genetic Position
Gene: DOC2A  
Chromosome: 16  
Start Position: 28533519  
End Position: 28651055  

### Pathology
No known pathological conditions are associated with mutations in this gene.

### Function
The DOC2A gene provides instructions for making a protein called double C2-like domain-containing protein alpha (DOC2A). This protein is involved in regulating the release of neurotransmitters from nerve cells, which is important for normal brain function.

### External IDs
- HGNC: 2922
- NCBI Entrez: 84409
- Ensembl: ENSG00000130996
- OMIM: 607055
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UQ38

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
No amino acid mutation information for gene DOC2A is available in dbSNP.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs/InDels information for gene DOC2A is available in dbSNP.

### Related Disease
No known associated diseases with mutations in this gene.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment or prognosis information related to mutations in this gene.

### Drug Response
There is currently no information available on drug response related to mutations in this gene.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Double C2-Like Domain-Containing Proteins, DOC2A and DOC2B
- Author Name: Shojiro Katoh
- DOI Links: [10.3390/ijms22010404]([Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms22010404))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**