---
title: "FZD9"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene FZD9"
tags: ['FZD9', 'WntSignaling', 'Cancer', 'CentralNervousSystemDisorders', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis', 'MetabolicDisorders']
---

## Information about Gene FZD9

**Genetic position:** FZD9 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 7 at position q31.3.

**Pathology:** Mutations in the FZD9 gene have been associated with various diseases, including cancer, metabolic disorders, and central nervous system disorders.

**Function:** FZD9 is a member of the Frizzled family of proteins, which are involved in the Wnt signaling pathway. The Wnt signaling pathway is involved in cell differentiation, proliferation, and survival.

**External IDs and Aliases:**
- HGNC ID: 4033
- NCBI Entrez ID: 8325
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000106546
- OMIM ID: 604836
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9UP38
- Aliases: Fz-9, FzE3, CD349

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
- p.Lys33Thr (rs147064581)
- p.Arg342Gln (rs35855737)
- p.Ile338Thr (rs41313556)
- p.Asp317Asn (rs55918636)

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
- c.838G>A (rs372514979)
- c.869C>T (rs754319288)
- c.1216A>G (rs372439228)

**Related disease:** Mutations in FZD9 have been associated with various diseases, including cancer (colorectal, lung, endometrial), skeletal disorders, and central nervous system disorders (schizophrenia, depression).

**Treatment and Prognosis:** The treatment and prognosis of FZD9-related diseases depend on the specific disease and the type and severity of the mutation.

**Drug response:** The response to drugs targeting FZD9 will depend on the specific mutation or disease being treated.

**Related papers:**
- Subject: The Frizzled 9 Receptor in Cancer
- Author: Nathalie M. Mazieres et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-19-2388)

- Subject: FZD9, a target of p53, promotes bone metastasis in prostate cancer
- Author: Katsuhisa Uchida et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1320301111)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**