---
title: "LDLR"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene LDLR"
tags: ['LDLR', 'FamilialHypercholesterolemia', 'LDLReceptor', 'CholesterolRegulation', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Statins', 'CardiovascularDisease']
---

## Information about Gene LDLR

### Genetic Position
The LDLR gene is located on chromosome 19 at position p13.2. 

### Pathology and Function
The LDLR gene, also known as the low-density lipoprotein receptor gene, is responsible for encoding the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor in humans. The LDL receptor plays a crucial role in regulating cholesterol levels in the body by removing LDL particles from the bloodstream and transporting them into cells. Mutations in the LDLR gene can cause a defect in the LDL receptor, resulting in an increased risk for cardiovascular disease, specifically familial hypercholesterolemia (FH).

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 6594
- NCBI Entrez ID: 3949
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000130164
- OMIM ID: 606945
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P01130
- Aliases: FH, FHC, LDLCQ2

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type
- MAF: p.Arg3527Gln (rs72658867)
  - Missense Mutation
- MAF: p.Asp1061Asn (rs33751854)
  - Missense Mutation
- MAF: p.Arg497Gln (rs28931570)
  - Missense Mutation
- MAF: p.Gly549Asp (rs137852689)
  - Missense Mutation

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no recorded somatic SNVs/InDels found in the LDLR gene.

### Related Disease
Mutations in the LDLR gene are known to cause familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), an inherited condition that causes high levels of LDL cholesterol in the blood, increasing the risk of heart attack and stroke. 

### Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for familial hypercholesterolemia includes lifestyle changes such as eating a healthy diet and exercising regularly, as well as medications such as statins. In severe cases, LDL apheresis or liver transplantation may be considered. Prognosis depends on the severity of the condition and the effectiveness of treatment.

### Drug Response
Statins are commonly used to treat familial hypercholesterolemia and have been shown to be effective in reducing LDL cholesterol levels. Response to statins can vary depending on the severity of the LDLR mutation.

### Related Papers
- [Familial hypercholesterolemia: A clinically silent killer](https://doi.org/10.4103/ijmr.IJMR_1539_15),) Sudha & Anila, Indian Journal of Medical Research, 2018.
- [Targeting the LDL receptor pathway for cancer therapy](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41574-019-0232-7),) Sánchez-Hernández & Gallo-Oller, Nature Reviews Clinical Oncology, 2019.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**