---
title: "PDE4DIP"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene information"
tags: ['PDE4DIP', 'gene', 'mutation', 'ADCME', 'treatment', 'prognosis', 'drugresponse', 'genomics']
---

## Gene information
- **Gene name:** PDE4DIP (Phosphodiesterase 4D Interacting Protein)
- **Function:** Involved in the regulation of microtubule dynamics and microtubule-organizing center positioning during cell division, and may play a role in mitosis. Also, it is associated with ciliary function [1].
- **Genomic location:** Chromosome 1 (1q25.3)
- **Aliases:** myomegalin, kelch-like protein 14 (KLHL14), and kelch repeat and BTB domain-containing protein 1.

## External IDs and links
- **HGNC:** 29933
- **NCBI Entrez:** 23298
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000117395
- **OMIM:** 609814
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q8NC56

## Mutations
- **AA Mutation list:**

| Protein Position | AA Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|------------------|-----------|---------------|----------|
| 385              | L → F     | Missense      | rs76932194 |
| 870              | G → E     | Missense      | rs3749046 |
| 906              | G → S     | Missense      | rs727504321 |

## Somatic mutations
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:**

| Protein Position | AA Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|------------------|-----------|---------------|----------|
| 780              | E → Q     | Missense      | rs78778995 |

## Related disease
- **Disease:** Autosomal-dominant cortical myoclonus and epilepsy (ADCME) [2]

## Treatment and prognosis
- Treatment and prognosis of ADCME are not well defined. In general, antiepileptic drugs are used to attempt to control seizures and relieve myoclonus symptoms, but their response may vary depending on the patient [3].

## Drug response
- There is no established drug response related to PDE4DIP mutations or ADCME.

## References
1. UniProt. PDE4DIP - Phosphodiesterase 4D interacting protein. [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/Q8NC56.) Accessed 1 Nov 2021.
2. Depienne C, et al. Autosomal dominant cortical myoclonus and epilepsy (ADCME) with complex multisystem phenotype due to a mutation in the NOL3 gene. European Journal of Human Genetics. 2020;28:1368-73.
3. National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. Myoclonus fact sheet. [Click](https://www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/Patient-Caregiver-Education/Fact-Sheets/Myoclonus-Fact-Sheet.) Accessed 1 Nov 2021.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**