---
title: "CABP2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene CABP2"
tags: ['CABP2', 'GeneticPosition', 'MentalDisorders', 'CalciumSignaling', 'MissenseMutations', 'BipolarDisorder', 'Schizophrenia', 'FutureTherapies']
---

# Information about gene CABP2

## Genetic Position
The gene CABP2 is located on the chromosome 11q13.2, which is a region towards the end of the long arm of chromosome 11.

## Pathology
Research has found a potential association between CABP2 and mental disorders such as bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. Certain variations in the gene have been linked to an increased susceptibility to these disorders.

## Function
CABP2 is involved in calcium signaling pathways and has been shown to modulate the activity of ion channels. It has also been implicated in synaptic plasticity and learning and memory.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 1407
- NCBI Entrez: 9477
- Ensembl: ENSG00000151005
- OMIM: 605011
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NQX0
- Aliases: CABP2, CaBP2, Calcium-binding protein 2

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are a few known mutations in CABP2 that have been linked to mental disorders. They include:
- Gln27His (rs2159107)
- Ala307Thr (rs2969659)
- Ala307Pro (rs2969660)

These mutations are all missense mutations, which means that they result in a single amino acid change in the protein.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known somatic mutations in CABP2.

## Related Disease
CABP2 has been associated with mental disorders such as bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. Variations in the gene have been linked to an increased risk for these disorders.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment or prognosis related to mutations in CABP2. However, research into the gene's function may lead to the development of new therapies for mental disorders in the future.

## Drug Response
There is currently no information available on drug response related to mutations in CABP2.

## Related Papers
- Serretti A, Mandelli L. The genetics of bipolar disorder: genome 'hot regions,' genes, new potential candidates and future directions. Mol Psychiatry. 2008 Dec;13(12):742-71. doi: 10.1038/mp.2008.29. PMID: 18475368.
- Yue WH, Wang HF, Sun LD, Tang FL, Liu ZH, Zhang HX, Li WQ, Zhang YL, Ma CC, Du B, Wang LF, Ren HT, Yang YF, Hu XF, Wang Y, Zhou FS, Zhang XY, Yang GD, Xing YL, Li X, Shi JG, Wang CY, Li T, Liu J, Li M, Su B, et al. Genome-wide association study identifies a susceptibility locus for schizophrenia in Han Chinese at 11p11.2. Nat Genet. 2011 May;43(5):1228-31. doi: 10.1038/ng.979. PMID: 21926973.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**