---
title: "CHRM3"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## **Gene: CHRM3**"
tags: ['CHRM3', 'MuscarinicAcetylcholineReceptor', 'Schizophrenia', 'Mutation', 'SomaticVariant', 'DrugResponse', 'Therapy', 'GeneticPosition']
---

## **Gene: CHRM3**

### **Genetic Position**
CHRM3 is located on chromosome 1 at the position 1q41-q44.

### **Function for Gene**
CHRM3 encodes the M3 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor, which is expressed in smooth muscle, glandular and neuronal tissues. It plays a role in various cellular processes such as regulation of smooth muscle contraction, glandular secretion, and neuronal development.

### **External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic location**
- HGNC: 1940
- NCBI Entrez: 1132
- Ensembl: ENSG00000162584
- OMIM: 118495
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P20309
- Aliases: HM3, CHRM3R, M3R, HM3R, HM3a, CHRM3i

### **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID**
There are numerous AA mutations reported in the CHRM3 gene. Some of them, along with the mutation type and their respective dbSNP IDs are given below:
- G17V, missense variant, rs149284207
- A400T, missense variant, rs73419781
- T602S, missense variant, rs794726690
- P551L, missense variant, rs766935120
- D10N, missense variant, rs398122692
- E66K, missense variant, rs150110032

### **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**
Several somatic SNVs/InDels have been identified in the CHRM3 gene. Some examples of such variants with their dbSNP IDs are given below:
- rs754414369
- rs759199897
- rs498020238

### **Related Disease**
- Schizophrenia: Studies have found a significant association between the CHRM3 gene and schizophrenia. The rs149284207 variant has been identified to be associated with schizophrenia. 

### **Treatment and Prognosis**
Currently, there is no specific treatment or therapy available for individuals having a dysfunctional CHRM3 receptor. However, research is ongoing towards finding drugs that can modulate the activity of this receptor. A better understanding of the mechanism of this receptor could lead to the development of targeted therapies for diseases associated with it.

### **Drug Response**
Studies have demonstrated that certain antipsychotic drugs that target the dopaminergic system can cause changes in the expression and function of the CHRM3 receptor. However, more research is required to establish a clear link between these drugs and the activity of the CHRM3 receptor.

### **Subject, Author Name, DOI links to Related Papers**
- Subject: Schizophrenia
- Author: Steinberg S, Mors O, Børglum AD, Gustafsson O, Werge T, Mortensen PB, Andreassen OA, Sigurdsson E, Thorgeirsson TE, Böttcher Y, Olason P, Ophoff RA, Cichon S, Gudjonsdottir IH, Rujescu D, Ruggeri M, Tosato S, Palotie A; Psychiatric Genomics Consortium (PGC) Schizophrenia Working Group and iPSYCH–Broad Institute Collaboration.
- DOI links to related papers: 
    1. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature13595)
    2. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/mp.2014.163)
    3. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopsych.2015.01.011)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**