---
title: "PCK2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene PCK2"
tags: ['PCK2', 'Gluconeogenesis', 'MetabolicPathway', 'Type2Diabetes', 'AlzheimersDisease', 'Cancer', 'Enzyme', 'PhosphoenolpyruvateCarboxykinase2']
---

# Information about gene PCK2


## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function

- Gene: PCK2
- Genomic location: Chromosome 14q22.1
- Pathology: PCK2 gene is associated with gluconeogenesis, a metabolic pathway that is important in the maintenance of glucose homeostasis.
- Function: PCK2 gene encodes a key enzyme phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 2 which catalyzes the conversion of oxaloacetate to phosphoenolpyruvate in the gluconeogenesis pathway.


## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC ID: 8587
- NCBI Entrez ID: 5106
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000100879
- OMIM ID: 614169
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q16822
- Aliases: PEPCK-C, PEPCK-M, PEPCK2


## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

No AA mutation is reported in the PCK2 gene.


## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

No somatic SNVs/InDels are reported in the PCK2 gene.


## Related Disease

Altered expression of PCK2 gene has been associated with various diseases such as type 2 diabetes, Alzheimer's disease, and cancer.


## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no specific treatment or prognosis associated with PCK2 gene.


## Drug Response

No drugs have been found to specifically target PCK2 gene.


## Related Papers

- Cortés-Cros M, Hemmerlin C, Ferretti S, Zhang Z, Alaimo D, et al. (2013) MCT1 Modulation of Cancer Cell Pyruvate Export and Growth: A Novel Glycolytic Target. J Cancer Sci Ther S10:005. doi: 10.4172/1948-5956.S10-005
- Vernier-Magnin S, Garcia-Sanchez F, Fitting C, Cavaillon JM, Adib-Conquy M (2019) Impact of carnitine on diabetes mellitus and its complications: an overview. Exp Suppl 111:339-361. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-16884-1_18. PMID: 31576574.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**