---
title: "CERKL"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene CERKL"
tags: ['GeneCERKL', 'RetinalDystrophy', 'RetinitisPigmentosa', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'ClinicalTrials', 'GeneticAnalysis']
---

# Gene CERKL

**Function:** CERKL (Ceramide Kinase Like) gene encodes for a protein that plays a role in the oxidative stress response and apoptosis in retinal cells.

**External IDs:**
- HGNC: 19052
- NCBI Entrez: 8994
- Ensembl: ENSG00000189063
- OMIM: 608381
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NYQ7

**Aliases:** C2orf71, FLJ10971, RP26

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
- c.538G > A (p.Asp180Asn) - rs61750897
- c.1165C > T (p.Arg389Cys) - rs61750898
- c.1396C > T (p.Arg466Trp) - rs121908579
- c.1399G > A (p.Gly467Arg) - rs121908580

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** None reported.

**Related disease:** Retinal dystrophy, specifically retinitis pigmentosa (RP).

**Treatment and prognosis:** Currently, there is no cure for RP, and treatment options are limited. Management may include the use of visual aids, such as glasses, magnifiers, or electronic magnifying devices, and low vision rehabilitation. Gene therapy and stem cell therapy are being studied as potential treatments.

**Drug response:** There is currently no drug specifically approved for the treatment of RP. However, clinical trials with various drugs, such as vitamin A palmitate and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) have shown some promise. 

**Related papers:**
- **Subject:** Genetic analysis of Spanish patients with Autosomal Recessive Retinitis Pigmentosa by target sequencing (2020)
- **Author Name(s):** Ruiz-Nogales, S., et al.
- **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0227807)

- **Subject:** Genetic Landscape of Retinitis Pigmentosa in Malaysian Population via Whole-Exome Sequencing Approach (2021)
- **Author Name(s):** Mohd-Zaki, R., et al.
- **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1097/IJG.0000000000001879)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**