---
title: "MSH5"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: MSH5"
tags: ['MSH5', 'DNArepair', 'HomologousRecombination', 'CancerSusceptibility', 'MeioticRecombination', 'GeneticDiversity', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: MSH5

## Genetic Position
* Chromosome: 6
* Location: 6p21.3
* Genomic coordinates: 31,558,937 - 31,611,951 bp

## Pathology
The MSH5 gene is associated with DNA repair through homologous recombination and meiotic recombination. Mutations in the MSH5 gene have been linked to increased susceptibility to cancer, particularly colorectal, breast, and ovarian cancers.

## Function
The MSH5 gene encodes a DNA mismatch repair protein that plays a key role in meiotic recombination. It is involved in the repair of double-strand breaks during homologous recombination and ensures proper chromosome segregation during meiosis.

## External IDs and Aliases
* HGNC: 7378
* NCBI Entrez: 4438
* Ensembl: ENSG00000112479
* OMIM: 603382
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O43196
* Aliases: G4, MGC10881

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
* c.394G>C (p.G132R) rs1042824
* c.761G>A (p.G254S) rs2238845
* c.1401A>G (p.I467V) rs2238846

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
* c.221C>T (p.T74M) rs775368064
* c.397G>A (p.G133S) rs869025429
* c.703C>T (p.T235M) rs1553314211

## Related Disease
MSH5 mutations are associated with increased risk of cancer, including colorectal, breast, and ovarian cancers. Additionally, mutations in MSH5 are implicated in shaping the genetic diversity of populations.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for MSH5-associated cancers typically involves surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy. Prognosis for these cancers varies depending on stage and location.

## Drug Response
As of now, there is no specific drug approved for the treatment of MSH5-associated cancer.

## Related Papers and DOI Links

* **Subject**: MSH5 gene mutations and cancer susceptibility
* **Author**: Ogino S, Wilson RB, Flotte TR
* **DOI Link**: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1136/jmg.2004.022491)

* **Subject**: MSH5 and its role in cancer prevention and therapy
* **Author**: Helleday T, Eshtad S, Nik-Zainal S
* **DOI Link**: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dnarep.2014.05.007)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**