---
title: "LYZ"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene LYZ"
tags: ['GeneLYZ', 'Lysosome', 'Amyloidosis', 'InnateImmuneSystem', 'MissenseVariant', 'SensitizationPneumonitis', 'AAAmyloidosis', 'OrganTransplantation']
---

# Information about Gene LYZ

**Genetic Position:** LYZ (Lysosome) is located on chromosome 12q15.

**Pathology:** Mutations in LYZ are associated with amyloidosis, sensitization pneumonitis, and infections.

**Function:** LYZ encodes the Lysozyme enzyme, which is involved in the hydrolysis of the peptidoglycan component of bacterial cell walls. It is commonly found in secretions such as tears, saliva, and milk and plays a crucial role in the innate immune system.

**External IDs and Aliases:**

- Entrez Gene ID: 4069
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000170808
- HGNC ID: 6748
- OMIM ID: 153450
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P61626

Aliases: LZM, LYZ1, RPIP1, HEL-S-97n

**AA Mutations and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**

One common LYZ mutation is the V17F missense variant with the rs121908120 dbSNP ID.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

Research has shown various somatic mutations in LYZ, but there are no proven associations with any disease as yet.

**Related Disease:**

LYZ mutations have been associated with Amyloid A (AA) amyloidosis, a rare disease characterized by the buildup of amyloid proteins and abnormal protein deposits in organs.

**Treatment and Prognosis:**

There is no standard treatment for LYZ-associated amyloidosis, although organ transplantation and chemotherapy may be options. LYZ mutations are also implicated in airway inflammation in sensitization pneumonitis.

**Drug Response:**

Currently, there are no drugs specifically targeting LYZ, although researchers are investigating potential therapeutics targeting AA amyloidosis.

## Related Papers

1. Subject: Lysozyme: an overview - doi: [10.1016/B978-0-12-404730-3.05010-4](https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-404730-3.05010-4)

2. Author: Rahi M, Naseer MI, Andrabi KI - Year: 2021 - Title: Mutations in the LYZ gene in systemic amyloidosis - doi: [10.1177/1358863X21997491](https://doi.org/10.1177/1358863X21997491)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**