---
title: "MIR425"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene MIR425"
tags: ['GeneMIR425', 'MicroRNA', 'BreastCancer', 'RegulationOfGeneExpression', 'Prognosis', 'OncogenicRole', 'TargetTherapy', 'Downregulation']
---

# Information about gene MIR425

The gene MIR425 is a microRNA gene located in the human chromosome Xq26.3. This gene is involved in the regulation of gene expression by targeting mRNA transcripts, leading to their translational inhibition or degradation. 

## Basic information

- Function: Regulation of gene expression by targeting mRNA transcripts for translational inhibition or degradation.
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: HGNC:31501
    - NCBI Entrez: 406911
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000226673
    - OMIM: 300283
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Not applicable
- Genomic location: ChrX:135,932,483-135,932,600
- Alias: hsa-miR-425, MIRN425

## Mutations and related diseases

- AA mutation list: 
    - There are no known AA mutations in MIR425.
- Mutation type: Not applicable
- dbSNP ID: Not applicable
- Somatic SNVs/InDels:
    - There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels in MIR425.
- related disease: 
    - MIR425 has been associated with cancer, specifically with breast cancer. Some studies suggest that MIR425 is downregulated in breast cancer tissues and that its overexpression can inhibit proliferation, migration, and invasion of breast cancer cells.

## Treatment, prognosis, and drug response

- Treatment: 
    - MIR425 has not been used as a direct target of any therapy.
- Prognosis: 
    - The downregulation of MIR425 has been associated with a poor prognosis in breast cancer.
- Drug response: 
    - There are no known drugs that target MIR425.

## Related papers

- Subject: "The oncogenic role of microRNA 425-5p in breast cancer"
- Author: Sun WY, Li HY, Yang G, et al.
- DOI link: [10.3892/ol.2017.6396](https://doi.org/10.3892/ol.2017.6396))

Note: The information provided in this document should not be used for clinical decisions or medical diagnosis without proper consultation and confirmation with a certified healthcare professional.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**