---
title: "BUB1B"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene BUB1B information"
tags: ['BUB1B', 'Cancer', 'MitoticCheckpoint', 'GeneticDisorder', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugDevelopment', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticMutation']
---

## Gene BUB1B information

**Genetic position:** Chromosome 15q15.1, from base pair 41,535,189 to base pair 41,550,923

**Pathology:** BUB1B gene is linked to cancer development, specifically, mutations in BUB1B have been identified in several types of cancer, such as melanoma, breast, ovarian and lung cancers.

**Function:** BUB1B encodes a protein called BubR1, which is involved in the mitotic checkpoint regulation and chromosome segregation during mitosis. 

**External IDs and aliases:**
- HGNC: 1062
- NCBI Entrez: 701
- Ensembl: ENSG00000179711
- OMIM: 602860
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60566

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| p.Arg913Cys | Missense | rs80338639 |
| p.Arg566* | Nonsense | rs150776015 |
| p.Lys207Glu | Missense | rs121912866 |
| p.Gly444Alafs*19 | Frameshift | rs1553286539 |

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

| Variant | Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| c.1678+20A>G | SNV | rs35961241 |
| c.-33C>A | SNV | rs372967470 |
| c.1338+54A>G | SNV | rs113994091 |

**Related disease:** Mutations in BUB1B have been linked to mosaic variegated aneuploidy (MVA) syndrome, a rare genetic disorder characterized by an abnormal number of chromosomes in the body's cells.

**Treatment and prognosis:** There is no specific treatment for BUB1B-related cancers. However, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgery are common treatment options. However, the prognosis for patients with BUB1B mutations depends on several factors, including cancer type, stage, and response to treatments.

**Drug response:** There are no specific drugs that target BUB1B, but researchers are currently developing inhibitors that target various mitotic checkpoint components, including BubR1. 

**Related papers:**
- Subject: "Identification and Characterization of BUB1B, a Sister Gene to BUB1"
  - Author: Taylor, Susan S.; Ha, Li-Chun; Liu, Yaling; et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/S0092-8674(03)00073-3

- Subject: "BUB1B mutations in human cancers impair mitotic checkpoint function"
  - Author: Michel L. DuPage, Elisa F. Taylor, Eric R. Fast, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.1001776

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**