---
title: "ST6GALNAC5"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene ST6GALNAC5"
tags: ['ST6GALNAC5', 'Glycosyltransferase', 'Sialyl-TnAntigen', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'Biosynthesis']
---

# Information about gene ST6GALNAC5

- Gene: ST6GALNAC5 
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 17q25.3 
- Alias: SIAT7D 

## Function
ST6GALNAC5 encodes an enzyme that belongs to the glycosyltransferase family, specifically the `glycosyltransferase 29 (GT29)` family. The glycosylation process involves the addition of sugars to proteins and lipids. This process modifies protein activity, stability, and interaction with other molecules. The ST6GALNAC5 enzyme is involved in the synthesis of the sialyl-Tn antigen, which is a carbohydrate structure present in some cancer cells.

## External IDs and Sites
- HGNC: 30708
- NCBI Entrez: 85309
- Ensembl: ENSG00000143673
- OMIM: 610877
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8IYB3

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are several missense mutations reported in the ST6GALNAC5 gene. Some examples are:

|Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|--------|-------------|--------|
|p.Gly57Arg|Missense|rs760018730|
|p.Asn568Ser|Missense|rs200151428|
|p.Arg569His|Missense|rs146904113|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Somatic mutations in the ST6GALNAC5 gene have been associated with several types of cancer, such as breast, ovarian, and colon cancer. Some examples of somatic mutations are:

|Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|--------|-------------|--------|
|c.146G>A|Missense|rs1057518854|
|c.344C>T|Missense|rs770933579|
|c.409A>G|Missense|rs1555083988|

## Related Disease
ST6GALNAC5 has been associated with several types of cancer, such as ovarian, breast, and colon cancer. The sialyl-Tn antigen synthesized by this gene is a tumor marker for some of these cancers.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The presence of the sialyl-Tn antigen in cancer cells is associated with poor prognosis. There is ongoing research on the development of drugs that target the sialylation process as a potential treatment for some cancers.

## Drug Response
There is currently no information available on drug response related to ST6GALNAC5.

## Related Papers
- Subject: The sialyl-Tn antigen in cancer biology and the development of a cancer vaccine
  - Author: Springer GF
  - DOI: 10.1007/s002810000116
- Subject: The sialyl-Tn antigen: occurrence, biosynthesis and clinical significance
  - Author: Dall'Olio F
  - DOI: 10.1042/BJ20031589

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**