---
title: "FKBP14"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene FKBP14"
tags: ['FKBP14', 'Collagen', 'OsteogenesisImperfecta', 'KyphoscolioticEhlersDanlosSyndrome', 'GeneticMutation', 'ConnectiveTissueDisorders', 'Bisphosphonates', 'Physiotherapy']
---

# Information about gene FKBP14

## Genetic Position
The FKBP14 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 7 (7q21.3).

## Pathology and Function
The FKBP14 gene encodes the FK506-binding protein (FKBP) 14 protein, which belongs to the FKBP family. This protein acts as a peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase and helps in the folding and maturation of collagen molecules. Collagen is an essential component of connective tissues, and mutations in the FKBP14 gene can cause defects in collagen synthesis and assembly, leading to various skeletal disorders such as osteogenesis imperfecta and kyphoscoliotic Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: HGNC:26296
    - NCBI Entrez: 115454
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000106683
    - OMIM: 614759
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q7RTX8
- Aliases: TNRC22, FKBP22

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.46C>T (p.Arg16Ter), rs587776800
- c.65dupT (p.Val23LeufsTer18), rs1554559402
- c.173G>A (p.Cys58Tyr), rs749110895
- c.521G>A (p.Asp174Asn), rs750707841

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no information available on somatic SNVs/InDels associated with the FKBP14 gene.

## Related Disease
- Osteogenesis Imperfecta (OI)
- Kyphoscoliotic Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (kEDS)

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment for OI and kEDS is mainly supportive and involves fracture management, pain control, and physiotherapy. However, ongoing clinical trials are investigating the efficacy of bisphosphonates, growth hormone, and gene therapy for the treatment of OI. The prognosis for individuals with OI and kEDS varies depending on the severity of the disease. While some individuals can lead a normal life, others may experience chronic pain and physical disabilities.

## Drug Response
There is no information available on drug response associated with the FKBP14 gene.

## Related papers
- Subject: Mutations in FKBP14 cause a variant of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome with progressive kyphoscoliosis, myopathy, and hearing loss
  - Author: Takaluoma, Katalin
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/humu.22351)
  
- Subject: Osteogenesis Imperfecta Treatment & Management
  - Author: Shapiro, Jay R. 
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://emedicine.medscape.com/article/126354-treatment)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**