---
title: "DLX6"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene DLX6"
tags: ['DLX6', 'GeneticDisorders', 'EmbryonicDevelopment', 'CleftPalate', 'IntellectualDisability', 'EarlyDiagnosis', 'WntSignaling', 'MesenchymalStemCells']
---

## Gene DLX6

**Genetic Position**: DLX6 gene is located on chromosome 7q21.3

**Function**: DLX6 gene plays a crucial role in embryonic development of the brain and the face. It is involved in the regulation of cell differentiation and migration.

**External IDs and Genomic Location**: 
- HGNC: 2969
- NCBI Entrez: 1746
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105835
- OMIM: 606753
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N119

**Aliases**: BP1, DLX7, FA1, TES-1

**AA Mutation list**:
- No AA mutation has been reported so far.

**Mutation Type with dbSNP ID**:
- No mutation has been reported so far.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**:
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported so far.

**Related Diseases**: 
- DLX6 gene has been associated with developmental disorders such as cleft palate and intellectual disability.

**Treatment and Prognosis**:
- There is no specific treatment available for genetic mutations related to DLX6 gene. The treatment is usually focused on managing the symptoms associated with the specific manifestations of the genetic disorder.
- The prognosis depends on the severity of the disease and the time of diagnosis. Early diagnosis and intervention can lead to improved outcomes.

**Drug Response**:
- There is limited information available on drug response related to DLX6 gene.

**Related Papers**:
- [A regulatory SNP causes a human genetic disease by creating a new transcriptional promoter]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-018-0237-0)
- [DLX6-AS1 Induces Osteogenic Differentiation of Human Adipose-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells by Activating Wnt/β-Catenin Signaling]([Click](https://doi.org/10.3389/fbioe.2019.00118)
- [Genetic architecture of oral facial clefts]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.828)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**