---
title: "CAPN10"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: CAPN10"
tags: ['CAPN10', 'Calpain10', 'InsulinSecretion', 'GlucoseMetabolism', 'Type2Diabetes', 'GeneticVariations', 'PancreaticBetaCells', 'CysteineProteases']
---

# Gene: CAPN10

### Information about the gene

CAPN10, also known as Calpain-10, is located on chromosome 2q37.1. This gene is involved in the regulation of insulin secretion and glucose metabolism. 

### Gene Function

CAPN10 encodes a member of the calpain family of calcium-dependent cysteine proteases. These enzymes cleave target proteins in a Ca2+-dependent manner, and play key roles in several processes, including cytoskeletal remodeling, immune function, and cell signaling. CAPN10 specifically plays a role in insulin secretion and glucose homeostasis, and is expressed in pancreatic beta cells. 

### External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases

- HGNC ID: 1470
- Gene ID: 11132
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000153368 
- OMIM ID: 605286
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9HC96

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- rs2975760: c.1257-12C>G, intronic variant
- rs2975761: c.923-31G>A, intronic variant 
- rs55718732: c.872T>C, p.Ile291Thr 
- rs3842570: c.919G>A, p.Asp307Asn 
- rs5030952: c.362C>T, p.Ala121Val 

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID.

### Related Disease

CAPN10 has been associated with an increased risk for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in some populations. In Mexican Americans, variations in the CAPN10 gene have been linked to increased susceptibility to T2DM. 

### Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no specific treatment for CAPN10-related disease, although T2DM can be managed with lifestyle changes, medications, and insulin therapy. 

### Drug Response

There is no known drug response related to CAPN10.

### Related Papers
- "The CAPN10 Gene and Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: A Review of the Genetics and Function of Polymorphisms" by Anthony H. Hodge, P. Darrell Neufer, and Michael P. Czech. DOI: 10.1093/JN/133.2.439
- "Calpain-10: From Genome Search to Function" by Masato Kasuga and Atsunori Kashiwagi. DOI: 10.1159/000125341

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**