---
title: "NDST1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene information for NDST1"
tags: ['NDST1', 'HeparanSulfate', 'NeurodevelopmentalDisorders', 'KallmannSyndrome', 'MissenseMutation', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene information for NDST1

## General information
* Gene: NDST1
* Pathology: NDST1 variations have been associated with various forms of sulfation defects, including Kallmann syndrome and neurodevelopmental disorders.
* Function: This gene encodes an enzyme that transfers sulfate to the non-reducing end of heparan sulfate chains. Its action is the first step in biosynthesis of heparan sulfate proteoglycans.

## Gene and genomic information
* Gene ID:  NDST1
* Genomic location:  Chromosome 5 (5q12.3)
* Aliases: HSST, NDST

## External IDs and links
* HGNC: 7724
* NCBI Entrez: 3340
* Ensembl: ENSG00000157404
* OMIM: 600453
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60567

## Mutations
### AA mutations
* Mutation type: Missense
* DBSNP ID: rs397515409
* Affected AA: Arginine to Cysteine at position 373
* Disease association: Neurodevelopmental disorder

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
No somatic mutations have been reported to date.

## Diseases
Variations in the NDST1 gene have been associated with several diseases, including:
* Kallmann syndrome
* Neurodevelopmental disorder
* Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)
* Intellectual disability 

## Treatment and Prognosis
As of now, there is no specific treatment for NDST1-related diseases. Treatment is mainly symptomatic and supportive.
The prognosis for NDST1-related diseases depends on the severity of the condition and the degree of disability. 

## Drug response
There is no specific drug response information available for NDST1-related diseases.

## Related Papers
* Subject: Clinical and molecular features of three patients with NDST1 deletions.
  * DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2019.05.004
  * Author: Lin J, Li M, Deng J, et al.
* Subject: Autosomal recessive Kallmann syndrome with multiple idiopathic intracranial hypertension episodes caused by a known homozygous mutation.
  * DOI: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2016.01.007
  * Author: Lin J, Li M, Deng J, et al.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**