---
title: "POT1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: POT1"
tags: ['POT1', 'Telomeres', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'TherapeuticApproach', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticInformation']
---

# Gene Information: POT1

## **Genetic Position**
POT1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 7 (7q31.33).

## **Pathology**
Mutations in the POT1 gene have been associated with various types of cancer including familial melanoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and glioma.

## **Function**
POT1 (Protection of Telomeres 1) gene encodes for a protein that plays a critical role in protecting the ends of chromosomes (telomeres) from degradation and maintaining their stability. The POT1 protein also regulates telomerase activity to control the length of telomeres.

## **External IDs and Aliases**
HGNC ID: 9168
NCBI Entrez ID: 25913
Ensembl ID: ENSG00000105848
OMIM ID: 606478
UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9NUX5
Aliases: TINF2, POT1A, DKFZp434N0735, PIP1

## **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID**
| Mutation Type        | Amino Acid Change | dbSNP ID |
|----------------------|---------------------|-------------|
| Missense variant     | c.435C>T                   | rs76922431     |
| Missense variant     | c.421G>A                  | rs772766825    |
| Missense variant     | c.726C>G                 | rs767355189    |
| Nonsense variant    | c.685C>T                  | rs267607172    |
| Frameshift variant  | c.684dupC              | rs782224515    |

## **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**
| Somatic Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|----------------------------|-------------|
| missense                      | rs150419339 |
| missense                      | rs587783243 |
| missense                      | rs760739050 |
| frameshift                     | rs1057519813 |
| stopgain                  | rs397507204 |

## **Related Disease**
- Familial melanoma 
- Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)
- Glioma

## **Treatment and Prognosis**
Targeting POT1 pathway could be a potential therapeutic approach for cancer treatment. Patients with POT1 mutations are more likely to have worse survival outcomes compared to patients without the mutations.

## **Drug Response**
There is currently no treatment specific to POT1 mutations. However, studies have shown that the use of telomerase inhibitors in combination with chemotherapy is promising in treating POT1-altered cancers.

## **References**
- Shi J, et al. Pot1b deletion and telomerase haploinsufficiency cooperate in murine colon carcinogenesis. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016;113(8):2220-2225. doi:10.1073/pnas.1522899113
- Robles-Espinoza CD, et al. POT1 loss-of-function variants predispose to familial melanoma. Nat Genet. 2014;46(5):478-481. doi:10.1038/ng.2930
- Lai X and Su C. Pot1 mutations and cancer susceptibility. Oncotarget. 2016;7(33):54548-54556. doi:10.18632/oncotarget.9697

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**