---
title: "CCL11"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene CCL11 "
tags: ['CCL11', 'Eotaxin1', 'Chemokine', 'Inflammation', 'Asthma', 'MonoclonalAntibodies', 'Corticosteroids', 'LeukotrieneModifiers']
---

## Information about Gene CCL11 

### Genetic Position 
- Chromosome: 17
- Genetic coordinates: 36,890,323 - 36,906,136 (GRCh38)
           
### Function for Gene
CCL11 codes for a protein called Eotaxin-1, which is a chemokine that controls the migration and activation of eosinophil cells. This gene is involved in the inflammatory response, particularly in allergic reactions and asthma.

### External IDs and Aliases 
- External IDs: HGNC: 10618, NCBI Entrez: 6356, Ensembl: ENSG00000141736, OMIM: 601704, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P51671
- Aliases: SCYA11, Eosinophil chemotactic protein

### AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID
- No mutations were found for AA in CCL11.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No known somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID were found for CCL11.

### Related Disease 
CCL11 is associated with eosinophilic inflammation, asthma, and atopic dermatitis.

### Treatment and Prognosis
The use of monoclonal antibodies against Eotaxin-1 has been suggested as a potential treatment for asthma and other eosinophilic inflammatory diseases. However, more research is needed to determine the effectiveness of this therapy.

### Drug Response
There are no drugs that directly target CCL11. However, corticosteroids and leukotriene modifiers may help to reduce eosinophil inflammation and alleviate asthma symptoms.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Inhibition of Eotaxin-1/CCL11 attenuates airway inflammation in a mouse model of allergic asthma
- Author: Lu Y, Cai Z, Xiao G, et al.
- DOI: 10.1177/1535370215600433 

- Subject: Altered CCL11 and CXCL8 chemokine levels in the airways of children with asthma
- Author: Singhania A, Wallington JC, Smith CG, et al.
- DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2017.01200

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**