---
title: "EMG1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Name: EMG1"
tags: ['EMG1', 'RibosomalSubunit', 'BowenConradiSyndrome', 'MissenseMutations', 'NucleolarProtein', 'OvarianCancer', 'RibosomeBiogenesis', 'GenomicModulator']
---

## Gene Name: EMG1

### Genetic Position
EMG1 is located on chromosome 2q21.3, specifically at base pairs 143,238,505 to 143,272,383.

### Pathology
Mutations in EMG1 have been identified as a cause of Bowen-Conradi Syndrome, an autosomal recessive disorder that is characterized by growth retardation, microcephaly, and severe psychomotor retardation.

### Function
EMG1 encodes for a protein involved in the biogenesis of the 40S ribosomal subunit. Specifically, it functions to methylate a specific RNA molecule that is essential for the assembly of the ribosomal subunit. 

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 8493
- NCBI Entrez: 9619
- Ensembl: ENSG00000163564
- OMIM: 606037
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96C12
- Aliases: SBDS domain-containing protein 1, mitochondrial

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are several missense mutations listed in the dbSNP database for EMG1. These include:
- p.Ala79Thr (rs137853785)
- p.Thr85Ile (rs767134841)
- p.Asp154His (rs200290011)
- p.His175Asp (rs74697585)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no somatic SNVs/InDels listed in the dbSNP database for EMG1.

### Related Disease
Bowen-Conradi Syndrome is the primary disease associated with mutations in EMG1.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for Bowen-Conradi Syndrome. Treatment is largely supportive and aimed at controlling symptoms.

### Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response associated with mutations in EMG1.

### Related Papers
- Subject: The human EMG1 nucleolar protein is required for 40S ribosome biogenesis and functional maturation
- Author: Isabelle C. Kos-Braun, Thomas Koš, Marlies Z. Klein, Maria Lührmann, Ute Nolte, Ivo Gröning, Carla Wachter, Mahravan Eichacker, Ed Hurt.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molcel.2010.10.025)

- Subject: The Ribosome Biogenesis Protein EMG1 is A Novel Genomic Modulator of Migration and Invasiveness in Ovarian Cancer
- Author: Aaron M. Decker, Aditi Singh, Todd Balch, Guoyan Wang, Medha Buechlein, Stephanie R. Tierney, Kenneth P. Nephew, Daniela Matei.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10585-019-09971-8)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**