---
title: "ACADSB"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: ACADSB"
tags: ['ACADSB', 'MetabolicDisorder', 'BranchedChainAminoAcids', 'EnergyMetabolism', '2MBCDD', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: ACADSB

## Genetic Position
ACADSB gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 10 at position 26.3 (10q26.3). 

## Pathology
Mutations in ACADSB gene are associated with an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder called 2-methylbutyrylglycinuria. It is a rare condition characterized by the accumulation of 2-methylbutyrylglycine and other metabolites in the body causing metabolic acidosis, developmental delays, hypotonia, seizures, and other neurological symptoms.

## Function
The ACADSB gene encodes short/branched chain specific acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, which is responsible for the degradation of branched chain amino acids such as isoleucine, valine, and other short-chain fatty acids. It plays a crucial role in energy metabolism and helps in maintaining energy balance.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 176
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 36
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000078328
- OMIM ID: 600301
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9UDR2
- Aliases: ACAD7, SBCAD

## AA Mutation List with dbSNP ID
- p.A37V (rs764912579)
- p.G180A (rs104886320)
- p.E89A (rs765073295)
- p.A92T (rs760615904)

## Somatic SNV/Indels with dbSNP ID
- c.764_765insA (rs886042931)
- c.1052A>T (rs767762512)
- c.961C>G (rs777434759)

## Related Disease
Mutations in the ACADSB gene are associated with an autosomal recessive disorder called 2-Methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (2-MBCDD) or 2-Methylbutyrylglycinuria. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for 2-MBCDD, however, treatment aims at reducing the symptoms and improving the quality of life. Treatment often includes a low-protein diet, supplements, and medications to prevent metabolic crisis. The prognosis of 2-MBCDD varies from person to person depending on the severity of the symptoms and the timely management of the disorder.

## Drug Response
There is no specific drug treatment for 2-MBCDD. However, certain medications may be prescribed to control seizures, muscle relaxation, and other related symptoms.

## Related Papers
- Subject: "2-MBCDD and ACADSB Gene"
- Author Name: Vuillaume ML, t'Kindt R, Mazzuca M, Schepers D, Jones EA
- DOI Links: 
   - [Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms21010345)
   - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpddr.2019.11.005) 
   - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00109-009-0568-9)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**