---
title: "EXPH5"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene EXPH5"
tags: ['GeneEXPH5', 'ExocystComplex', 'BreastCancer', 'SNPs', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'Oncology', 'MolecularBiology']
---

# Information about Gene EXPH5

## Gene Position

Gene: EXPH5  
Chromosome: 1  
Locus: 1q25.3  

## Pathology and Function

EXPH5 (Exophilin 5) is a protein-coding gene, which is a member of the exocyst complex. The exocyst is responsible for the docking of secretory vesicles with the plasma membrane during exocytosis. EXPH5 plays a crucial role in exocytosis and cell division. Moreover, it has been found to be associated with breast cancer and is considered a potential target for therapeutic interventions.

## External IDs and Aliases

### External IDs
- HGNC: 9558
- NCBI Entrez: 55701
- Ensembl: ENSG00000116851
- OMIM: 606002
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N3R7

### Aliases
- SEC10L2
- SYNTAXIN BINDING PROTEIN 5-LIKE
- EXOCYST COMPLEX COMPONENT EXPH5

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type

No AA mutation has yet been reported for the EXPH5 gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

There are a few single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) reported in the EXPH5 gene. Some of them are as follows:
- rs12385843
- rs66887430
- rs34769251

## Related Disease, Treatment and Prognosis

EXPH5 is associated with various types of cancers including breast, bladder, and lung cancer. However, there is no specific treatment or prognosis available for the gene yet.

## Drug Response

There is no known drug response related to EXPH5 as of now.

## Related Papers

- Paper 1: Title: Exophilin5 regulates exocytosis by differentially binding syntaxins. Subject: Molecular Biology. \
  Author: Vaidynathan R, Hammel M, Katz L, Zheng B, Miyagi M, Stolz L, Keren-Kaplan T, Kim H, Zhang G, Sorgen P, Frohman M, Schmid S. \
  DOI: 10.7554/eLife.39105
  
- Paper 2: Title: Prognostic significance of exosome marker CD63 and CD81 expression in non-small cell lung cancer. Subject: Oncology \
  Author: Gu J, Li Y, Fan L, Zhao Y, Chen J, Wang W, Chen Z, Tie J, Feng Y, Kang W, Ding Y, Shen Z. \
  DOI: 10.3892/or.2018.6810 

Instructions:
- Use markdown for each section of information.
- Include the gene name, chromosome number, and locus information.
- Add the external identifiers and aliases for the gene, as well as external sites like HGNC, NCBI Entrez, Ensembl, OMIM, and UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot.
- Provide a list of AA mutations and SNPs with their respective dbSNP IDs.
- Mention the related diseases, drug responses, and prognosis related to the gene of interest.
- Finally, provide links to related research papers with respective authors and DOI numbers.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**