---
title: "MIR16 1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: MIR16-1"
tags: ['MIR16-1', 'MicroRNA', 'Cancer', 'GeneExpression', 'TargetedTherapy', 'Dysregulation', 'DrugResponse', 'ClinicalImplications']
---

# Gene: MIR16-1

## Genetic Position
MIR16-1 is located on chromosome 13q14.2.

## Pathology 
MIR16-1 plays a role in various cellular processes, including cell proliferation, apoptosis, and differentiation, and its dysregulation has been linked to several diseases, including cancer.

## Function
MIR16-1 is a microRNA that regulates gene expression by suppressing translation or promoting mRNA degradation. It has been shown to regulate several critical tumor-suppressor pathways and play a significant role in the development and progression of various forms of cancer.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: HGNC:31527
- NCBI Entrez ID: 406953
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000238792
- OMIM ID: 610081
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: 

Aliases:
- MIRN16-1
- miRNA16-1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are currently no amino acid (AA) mutations reported for MIR16-1 as it is a microRNA, not a protein-coding gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no somatic SNVs/InDels reported for MIR16-1 in dbSNP.

## Related Disease 
MIR16-1 has been implicated in the development and progression of several forms of cancer, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and ovarian cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
As MIR16-1 is a microRNA, targeted therapies are being developed to modulate its expression and activity in cancer cells, but no specific treatment or therapy exists that directly targets MIR16-1.

## Drug Response
There is currently limited information available regarding drug response to modulation of MIR16-1 expression and activity.

## Related Papers
- Subject: MicroRNA Dysregulation in Cancer: Clinical Implications and Therapeutic Opportunities
- Author: Miguel F. Segura
- DOI: 10.3390/ph10040142

- Subject: Dysregulation of microRNA-16 and its target genes contributes to the development of chronic lymphocytic leukemia
- Author: Mulligan SP, et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.cancergen.2011.09.003 

- Subject: MiR-16-1 Plays a Role in Reducing Ovarian Cancer Cell Proliferation and Adhesion through Modulating COX-2 Expression
- Author: Jahromi MA, Erfani-Moghadam V, et al.
- DOI: 10.1055/s-0038-1646964

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**