---
title: "MGAT4C"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene MGAT4C"
tags: ['GeneMGAT4C', 'Glycosyltransferase', 'Nlinkedglycansynthesis', 'Geneticinformation', 'Pathology', 'Relateddisease', 'Drugresponse', 'Researchpublications']
---

## Gene MGAT4C

- **Genetic position:** Chromosome 22: 45230509-45432060
- **Pathology:** No known specific pathology associated
- **Function:** This gene encodes for a member of the glycosyltransferase family which catalyzes the transfer of N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) to beta-linked mannose residues on the developing N-glycan in the Golgi apparatus. The encoded protein is localized to the Golgi apparatus and is involved in the synthesis of complex-type N-linked glycans.
- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 26160
    - NCBI Entrez: 79750
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000100214
    - OMIM: 610912
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5JQ38
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    - No missense mutations or other variations associated with the gene have been identified in dbSNP database.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - No somatic variants of the gene have been reported to date.
- **Related disease:** No disease associated with mutations in MGAT4C has been identified so far.
- **Treatment and prognosis:** N/A.
- **Drug response:** N/A.
- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
    1. Paschinger, K. et al. (2011) Characterization of beta 1,2-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity expressed in Trichomonas vaginalis. Glycobiology, 21: 439-448. DOI: 10.1093/glycob/cwq173
    2. Wang, Y. et al. (2016) Deletion of Mgat5 in T cells suppresses the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Journal of Immunology, 196: 903-914. DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1500965

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**