---
title: "NXF5"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: NXF5"
tags: ['NXF5', 'NuclearRNAExport', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticPosition', 'SNVs', 'RelatedDiseases', 'DrugResponse', 'RNAExportFactors']
---

# Gene: NXF5

## Genetic Position:

- Chromosome: 11
- Location: 11p15.5
- Strand: (+) 

## Pathology:

There is no known pathology associated with the NXF5 gene.

## Function for gene:

- The NXF5 gene codes for a protein that belongs to the family of nuclear RNA export factors, which transport messenger RNA (mRNA) from the nucleus to the cytoplasm in eukaryotic cells.

## External IDs:

- HGNC: 20964
- Entrez Gene: 284361
- Ensembl: ENSG00000134839
- OMIM: -
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5SSJ4
- Aliases: NXF6, KIAA1524

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:

There are no known amino acid (AA) mutations associated with the NXF5 gene in the dbSNP database.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

There are no known somatic Single Nucleotide Variants (SNVs) or Insertions/Deletions (InDels) associated with the NXF5 gene in the dbSNP database.

## Related Diseases:

There are no known diseases directly associated with mutations in the NXF5 gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis:

As there are no associated diseases, there is no specific treatment or prognosis associated with the NXF5 gene.

## Drug Response:

There is no known drug response associated with the NXF5 gene.

## Related Papers:

- Subject: "Identification of novel nuclear RNA Export Factors in mammalian cells"
  - Author: Katahira, J.
  - DOI Link: 10.1016/j.gde.2005.09.002
 
- Subject: "Genomic identification of the complete set of RNA-binding proteins"
  - Author: Gerstberger, S. et al.
  - DOI Link: 10.1261/rna.096041.112

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**