---
title: "IQSEC2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: IQSEC2"
tags: ['IQSEC2', 'NeurodevelopmentalDisorders', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Seizures', 'Autism', 'Schizophrenia', 'MissenseMutation', 'TherapeuticOptions']
---

# Gene: IQSEC2

## Genetic Position:
- Chromosome: Xq26.1 
- Start: 133,676,678 bp 
- End: 133,770,149 bp

## Pathology:
The deregulation of IQSEC2 has been implicated in the pathology of multiple neurodevelopmental disorders including X-linked intellectual disability, early onset seizures, autism, and schizophrenia.

## Function:
IQSEC2 encodes the protein IQSEC2 which is involved in neuronal development and function by regulating the activity of small GTPases in the brain.

## External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC ID: 5974 
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 9900 
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000102010 
- OMIM ID: 300522 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q6ZWL3 
- Aliases: ARF-GEP100, BRAG2, CAGF15, FLJ10838

## AA Mutation List with Type and dbSNP ID:
- N98S missense mutation, rs35055044
- Y162C missense mutation, rs137852812
- Q399R missense mutation, rs116928744

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- None reported.

## Related Diseases:
- X-linked intellectual disability type 68 (OMIM #300534)
- Early-onset seizures and/or developmental delay with or without movement abnormalities (OMIM #617836)

## Treatment and Prognosis:
There is no cure for these diseases caused by IQSEC2 mutations. However, treatments such as speech therapy, physical therapy, and occupational therapy can help individuals with disabilities achieve their full potential.

## Drug Response:
There is no specific drug available to treat these disorders caused by IQSEC2 mutations. The treatment is generally supportive and symptomatic.

## Related Papers:
- Subject: Pathogenic IQSEC2 variants in males: expanding the phenotype to include Leigh-like syndrome Authors: Yosuke Miyake, et al. DOI: 10.1002/humu.23871
- Subject: IQSEC2 variants in males: Phenotype and response to ketogenic diet Authors: Ingrid Scheffer, et al. DOI: 10.1002/ana.24674

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**