---
title: "CHPF"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene CHPF"
tags: ['GeneCHPF', 'ChondroitinPolymerizingFactor', 'ChondroitinSulfate', 'AminoAcidMutations', 'SomaticSNVs', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information on Gene CHPF

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Genetic Position:** CHPF gene is located at 16p13.3 on the positive strand.
- **Pathology:** There are no known pathological conditions directly associated with CHPF gene mutations.
- **Function:** CHPF gene encodes a protein called chondroitin polymerizing factor that is involved in the biosynthesis of chondroitin sulfate, which is a type of glycosaminoglycan that is an integral component of cartilage.

## Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 5175
    - NCBI Entrez: 23507
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000168802
    - OMIM: 604190
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q86UJ8
- **Aliases:** CHPF, D6S216E, CHSY2

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several amino acid mutations reported for CHPF gene with dbSNP IDs, some of them are:
- rs61742418: Gly24Glu
- rs61742419: Gly96Arg
- rs61742420: Ser178Pro
- rs3796015: Ser208Asn 

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels reported for the CHPF gene. Some of them with dbSNP IDs:
- rs147979768: c.1277A>C, p.Gln426Pro
- rs12074511: c.1054delA, p.Pro352fs
- rs628159: c.215+1G>A

## Related Disease 
There are no known diseases directly associated with CHPF gene mutations, but chondroitin sulfate dysregulation have been suggested to have indirect involvement in atherosclerosis, osteoarthritis, and cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
As CHPF gene mutations are not directly linked with any pathology there are no targeted treatments for CHPF mutations. Treatment for any associated diseases or conditions would depend on the specific pathological condition.

## Drug Response
There is no information regarding drug response related to the CHPF gene.

## Related Papers

- **Subject:** Delineating the role of chondroitin sulfate in radiation-induced lung damage using CHPF gene knockout mice
  - **Author:** Aslam MI, et al.
  - **DOI:** 10.1667/RR15227.1
- **Subject:** The chondroitin sulfate synthase-2 (CHSY2) gene plays a crucial role in chondroitin sulfate synthesis and acts as a therapeutic target for anticancer drugs in human cancer cells
  - **Author:** Nagase H, et al.
  - **DOI:** 10.1016/j.yexcr.2014.10.019

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**