---
title: "JAK2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene JAK2"
tags: ['JAK2', 'MyeloproliferativeNeoplasms', 'JAKInhibitors', 'Mutation', 'BloodDisorders', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'TyrosineKinase']
---

# Information about Gene JAK2

## Genetic Position
The JAK2 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 9 at position 24.1 (9q24.1).

## Pathology
Mutations in the JAK2 gene have been associated with various blood-related disorders, including myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) such as polycythemia vera (PV), essential thrombocythemia (ET), and primary myelofibrosis (PMF). These mutations lead to the activation of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway, which promotes the proliferation and survival of blood cells, resulting in the development of MPNs.

## Function
The JAK2 gene encodes a non-receptor tyrosine kinase that plays a crucial role in various signaling pathways, particularly the JAK/STAT pathway, which is involved in the regulation of cell growth, differentiation, and survival.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 6193
- NCBI Entrez: 3717
- Ensembl: ENSG00000162378
- OMIM: 147796
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60674
- Aliases: JTK10, THCYT3

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- V617F - Missense mutation - rs77375493
- Exon 12 mutations - Framshift, Nonsense - rs121913488, rs121913487

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- p.K539L - Missense mutation - rs786204315
- p.A573V - Missense mutation - rs77375494
- p.V617F - Missense mutation - rs77375493

## Related Disease
JAK2 mutations are associated with myeloproliferative neoplasms, such as polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia, and primary myelofibrosis.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment of JAK2-associated MPNs mainly involves the use of JAK inhibitors, such as ruxolitinib, to inhibit the activity of the JAK/STAT pathway. The prognosis of JAK2-positive MPNs varies depending on the type and stage of the disease.

## Drug Response
There have been reports of varying responses to JAK inhibitors in JAK2-positive MPN patients, with some patients showing significant improvement while others do not respond or develop resistance over time.

## Related Papers and Links
- Subject: JAK2 mutations in myeloproliferative neoplasms
- Author: Kralovics, Robert
- DOI: 10.1038/ng1914
- Subject: JAK inhibitors for the treatment of myeloproliferative neoplasms
- Author: Harrison, Claire
- DOI: 10.1007/s00432-017-2349-8

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**