---
title: "CPZ"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: CPZ"
tags: ['CPZgene', 'CarboxypeptidaseZ', 'Protease', 'PeptideProcessing', 'PituitaryAdenoma', 'EndocrineTumor', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'Mutation']
---

## Gene: CPZ

### Overview
CPZ Gene encodes Carboxypeptidase Z, which is a zinc-containing protease that cleaves C-terminal amino acids linked to arginine or lysine residues. It is involved to play a key role in peptide processing in various tissues.

### Function
Carboxypeptidase Z (CPZ) is an exopeptidase that removes the terminal basic residues(Arg or Lys) from peptide and protein substrates. The encoded protein plays a key role in the regulation of peptide hormone activity by processing prohormones. In general, carboxypeptidases are involved in protective functions by controlling the lifetime of peptide hormones and neurotransmitters. CPZ gene implicates to maintain or modify several biological pathways and molecular functions.

### External IDs
- HGNC: 2500
- NCBI Entrez: CPZ
- Ensembl: ENSG00000162405
- OMIM: 114855
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96IY4

### Mutation
#### AA mutation list with mutation type and dbSNP ID
|Mutation Type|AA mutation|dbSNP ID|
|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|Missense|Arg227Cys|rs113893371|

### Related Diseases
Abnormal expression of CPZ is related to pituitary adenoma. Additionally, it has also been suggested to be involved in other diseases related to peptide hormone secretion like endocrine tumor and cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no particular treatment available for CPZ gene mutation as such. The prognosis of disease varies depending on the severity of the disease and its progression.

### Drug Response
Currently, there is no known specific drug targeting CPZ gene. It can be studied as a potential therapeutic target to be treated.

### Related Papers
- Yi H et al. Carboxypeptidase Z (CPZ) stimulates migration and proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells in vitro and is upregulated in neointimal hyperplasia and atherosclerosis. Am J Pathol. 2012 Oct;181(4):1540-54. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2012.06.008   
- Saron C, Markert Y, Wittekind C, Izbicki JR, Kaifi JT. DNA methylation of carboxypeptidase Z (CPZ) is highly specific in colorectal cancer. BMC Cancer. 2016 May 28;16:355. doi: 10.1186/s12885-016-2396-5. 

**Note**: This information is intended for educational purposes only and should not be used for diagnosis or treatment without consultation with a healthcare provider.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**