---
title: "FANCB"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene FANCB"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'FANCB', 'FanconiAnemia', 'DNARepair', 'BloodDisorder', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information on Gene FANCB

## Genetic Position
FANCB is located at Xp22.2. It spans roughly 89,111 base pairs.

## Pathology
Mutations in the FANCB gene causes Fanconi anemia, which is a rare blood disorder. FANCB disease occurs mostly in males, and it affects bone marrow function leading to a decrease in the number of all types of blood cells.

## Function
The FANCB protein is a component of the Fanconi anemia complementation group B (FANC-B) protein complex. This protein complex is involved in DNA damage repair. It helps to repair DNA damage caused by radioactive agents, DNA inter-strand crosslinks, and other types of DNA damage.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: HGNC:3580
- NCBI Gene ID: 2188
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000182054
- OMIM ID: 300515
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N5M1

Aliases:
- FACC, FANCBP, XLR5

## AA Mutations
The following are some of the known amino acid mutations in FANCB:

|Mutation Type|AA Mutation|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|Missense|p.L87S|rs104894377|
|Missense|p.R192G|rs121908630|
|Missense|p.I192S|rs121908630|
|Missense|p.R259Q|rs121908632|
|Missense|p.R302G|rs28929474|

## Somatic SNV
The following are some of the known Somatic SNVs with associated dbSNP ID:

|dbSNP ID|Mutation Type|
|---|---|
|rs786205514|Missense|
|rs878853102|Missense|
|rs886037267|Missense|

## Related Disease
- Fanconi Anemia

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for Fanconi anemia, however, treatments such as bone marrow transplantation, blood transfusions, and gene therapy can help alleviate symptoms. The prognosis depends on the severity of the disease and how early it is diagnosed.

## Drug Response
There are currently no drugs that specifically target FANCB. However, drugs that are used to treat cancer may be used to treat Fanconi anemia as both conditions involve DNA damage.

## Related Papers
- Evaluation of Fanconi Anemia Genes’ Role in Fanconi Anemia and Acute Myeloid Leukemia-Related Disorders by El-Mahdy AM et al. DOI: 10.1177/1179554919836204 
- Analysis of genomic instability and repair in murine Fanconi anemia cells by Chaudhury I et al. DOI: 10.1093/emboj/19.18.4568
- Therapy-Related Acute Myeloid Leukemia After Treatment for Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia in a Patient with Fanconi Anemia by Dimopoulos K et al. DOI: 10.1007/s00277-007-0391-7

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**