---
title: "ATP10A"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene ATP10A"
tags: ['ATP10A', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'KuforRakebSyndrome', 'PhospholipidTransport', 'GeneticMutations', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'Neurodegeneration']
---

# Information about gene ATP10A

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

The ATP10A gene is located on chromosome 15q22.31. It encodes for a transmembrane P-type ATPase protein that is involved in the transport of phospholipids. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a rare form of Parkinson's disease called Kufor-Rakeb syndrome.

## Function for gene

The ATP10A gene encodes for a protein that is involved in the transport of phospholipids. Specifically, it transports phosphatidylserine from the cytoplasmic to the luminal side of membranes. This activity is important for maintaining the lipid asymmetry of cellular membranes.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 17735
- NCBI Entrez: 57181
- Ensembl: ENSG00000178767
- OMIM: 611229
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y2G9
- aliases: ATPA1, ATPNH, ATPNH1, ATPPH, ATPPH1, HsT17570

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

Some reported mutations in the ATP10A gene include:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|p.Arg710*|nonsense|rs869320593|
|p.Arg785Trp|missense|rs1567814510|
|p.Ser810Cys|missense|rs201551659|
|p.Arg977Cys|missense|rs150158876|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels in the ATP10A gene.

## Related Disease

Mutations in the ATP10A gene have been associated with Kufor-Rakeb syndrome. This is a rare, autosomal recessive form of Parkinson's disease that is caused by dopaminergic neuron degeneration.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no cure for Kufor-Rakeb syndrome. Treatment involves managing symptoms with medications used for Parkinson's disease, such as levodopa. The prognosis for individuals with this disorder can vary based on the severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response

There is currently no information available regarding drug response specifically related to mutations in the ATP10A gene.

## Related Papers

- Di Fonzo, A., Chien, H. F., Socal, M., Giraudo, S., Tassorelli, C., Iliceto, G., … Garavaglia, B. (2007). ATP13A2 missense mutations in juvenile parkinsonism and young onset Parkinson disease. Neurology, 68(19), 1557–1562. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1212/01.wnl.0000260960.34673.20)
- Paisán-Ruiz, C., Guevara, R., Federoff, M., Hanagasi, H., Sina, F., Elahi, E., … Hardy, J. (2005). Early-onset L-dopa-responsive parkinsonism with pyramidal signs due to ATP13A2, PLA2G6, FBXO7 and spatacsin mutations. Movement Disorders, 20(Suppl 12), S119–S127. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/mds.20507)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**