---
title: "DTNBP1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['DTNBP1', 'Schizophrenia', 'BipolarDisorder', 'IntellectualDisability', 'SynapticTransmission', 'PsychiatricDisorders', 'Medications', 'GeneMutations']
---

## Gene Information

### Gene Name: DTNBP1
### Pathology: Schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, intellectual disability
### Function: DTNBP1 encodes a protein named dystrobrevin-binding protein 1 (DTNBP1) which is involved in the regulation of synaptic transmission in the brain. 

### External IDs: 
- HGNCID: 3053
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 84062
- Ensembl Gene: ENSG00000183185
- OMIM: 607145
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96EV8

### Aliases:
- DDP1
- HPS7
- DBP-6
- BDPL
- MGC138297


## Mutations

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:

| AA Change   | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID   |
|-------------|---------------|------------|
| R74X        | Nonsense      | rs145729955|
| T203I       | Missense      | rs74315349 |
| V124M       | Missense      | rs34536443 |
| V158I       | Missense      | rs17030795 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

There are currently no known somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID related to DTNBP1.

## Related Diseases
DTNBP1 gene mutations are associated with a variety of psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and intellectual disability.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are currently no specific treatments for disorders caused by mutations in the DTNBP1 gene. However, medications used to treat symptoms in disorders such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder can be effective in managing these conditions.

## Drug Response
Individuals with mutations in the DTNBP1 gene may show differences in their response to certain medications, but further research is needed to determine specific drug interactions.

## References

- Tarabeux, J., Kebir, O., Gauthier, J., Hamdan, F. F., Xiong, L., Piton, A., ... & Rouleau, G. A. (2010). Rare mutations in N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors in autism spectrum disorders and schizophrenia. Translational psychiatry, 1(10), e55. [[Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/tp.2010.53])

- Hwang, R., Kember, R. L., & Fernandes, C. (2020). Gene Network Analysis Identified Candidate Gene Signatures for Pediatric Bipolar Disorder. Frontiers in genetics, 11, 1079. [[Click](https://doi.org/10.3389/fgene.2020.01079])

- NCBI Gene database for DTNBP1 [[Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/84062])

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**