---
title: "YWHAE"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Overview"
tags: ['YWHAE', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticVariation', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'NeuropsychiatricDisorders', 'MillerDiekerSyndrome']
---

# Gene Overview
## Gene Name: YWHAE
## Gene Alias: 14-3-3ε, YWHAE1
## Genomic Location: Chromosome 17 (17p13.3)
## Function: The YWHAE gene encodes the 14-3-3ε protein that is involved in a plethora of intracellular processes such as signal transduction, cell cycle regulation, apoptosis, and protein trafficking.

# External IDs
- HGNC: 12858
- NCBI Entrez: 7531
- Ensembl: ENSG00000130675
- OMIM: 605066
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P62258

# Variation Information
## AA Mutation List:
|Mutations|Mutation type|dbSNP ID|
|---------|-------------|--------|
|D123E|Missense|rs28936680|
|S127N|Missense|rs28936681|
|G129E|Missense|rs28936682|
|S165N|Missense|rs137853316|
|N153H|Missense|rs137853315|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels:
|Mutation type|dbSNP ID|
|-------------|--------|
|SNP|rs2075556|
|SNP|rs17849085|
|INDEL|rs869025438|
|SNP|rs769563798|
|SNP|rs149853515|

# Related Diseases
The YWHAE gene is associated with several diseases, including:
- Miller-Dieker syndrome
- Schizophrenia
- Neuropsychiatric disorders

# Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment available for YWHAE-related disorders. The prognosis of affected individuals depends on the underlying condition and their severity.

# Drug Response
No known drugs that specifically target YWHAE have been reported so far.

## References:
- Guan, D., Huang, Y., Xie, L., Li, T., Du, X., & Hou, L. (2018). Dysregulation of YWHAE/14-3-3ε in neuropsychiatric disorders. Frontiers in psychiatry, 9, 22. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyt.2018.00022) 
- Li, K., Zhang, S., Fang, Y., Li, Y., & Zhu, Z. (2020). Genomic heterogeneity of Miller-Dieker syndrome revealed through analysis of pathogenic mechanisms. Orphanet journal of rare diseases, 15(1), 1–11. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13023-020-01579-w.)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**