---
title: "GIMAP8"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene GIMAP8"
tags: ['GIMAP8', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'InflammatoryDiseases', 'ImmuneCellSurvival', 'TherapeuticTargets', 'TCellDevelopment', 'Regulation', 'DendriticCellTranscriptomes']
---

# Information about Gene GIMAP8

## Genetic position, Pathology, and Function

- **Genetic Position:** GIMAP8 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 7 (7q36.2).
- **Pathology:** Research suggests the association of GIMAP8 with autoimmune and inflammatory diseases.
- **Function:** GTPase IMAP family member 8 (GIMAP8) encodes a protein that belongs to GIMAP family, which are essential for immune cell survival, activation, and differentiation. GIMAP8 is involved in T cell development and the regulation of CD4+ T cell proliferation.

## Additional Information 

- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
     - HGNC: HGNC:30059
     - NCBI Entrez: 84708
     - Ensembl: ENSG00000185024
     - OMIM: 611052
     - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H5W5
     
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** Currently there are no reported amino acid (AA) mutations in GIMAP8 listed in dbSNP (NCBI's Single Nucleotide Polymorphism Database).

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** There are no somatic SNVs/InDels currently reported in dbSNP.

- **Related disease:** Although GIMAP8 is associated with autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, no specific disease has been identified for GIMAP8 abnormalities so far. Future studies may shed light on its potential role in certain autoimmune diseases.

- **Treatment and prognosis:** As of now, there is no specific treatment protocol or prognosis related to GIMAP8.

- **Drug response:** No drugs are currently listed for GIMAP8, but research suggests that GIMAP proteins could represent potential therapeutic targets for immune-mediated diseases.

## Related Papers

- **Subject:** GIMAP8 Genetically Regulates Dendritic Cell Transcriptomes, Inflammation and Autoimmunity**
- **Author name:** Anupama Sahoo, Alexander Swerdlow, Camilla Forastiero, Jessie Gao, Rajatava Basu, Petar Petrov, Sonal Mehrotra, Kailash Gulshan, Christopher S. Walker, Ulf Klein and Jun Y. Ma**
- **DOI links to related papers:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41590-019-0421-9,) [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30643282)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**