---
title: "PTPLA"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene PTPLA "
tags: ['PTPLA', 'CongenitalMyopathy', 'LipidPhosphatase', 'InsulinSignaling', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Research']
---

## Information about gene PTPLA 

### Genetic Position
- The gene PTPLA is located on chromosome 1 at the position 1p36.21.

### Pathology 
- Mutations in the PTPLA gene have been associated with congenital myopathy affecting the skeletal muscles known as "Centronuclear Myopathy 2B" (CNM2B).

### Function for gene
- The PTPLA gene encodes a protein called "Lipid phosphatase PTPLA", which is known to play a role in regulating lipid metabolism and insulin signaling.

### External IDs
- HGNC: 9642
- NCBI Entrez: 5498
- Ensembl: ENSG00000204005
- OMIM: 606212
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y2K2

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.146C>T, p.Arg49Ter. rs267607024
- c.602G>A, p.Arg201Gln. rs768520491

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels of PTPLA gene have been reported.

### Related Disease
- Congenital myopathy (Centronuclear myopathy 2B)

### Treatment and prognosis
- There is currently no cure for centronuclear myopathy caused by PTPLA mutations, but various treatments and therapies can help to manage the symptoms and slow down the progression of the disease.

### Drug response
- There is no specific drug approved for the treatment of centronuclear myopathy caused by PTPLA mutations.

### Related Papers
1. Subject: "Centronuclear myopathy due to a de novo mutation in PTPLA".
   - Author: Bohlega S, Al-Sayed M, Al-Mohanna F, Kentab A
   - DOI: 10.1136/jmg.38.1.e1
2. Subject: "Identification of a novel PTPLA mutation causing congenital muscular dystrophy".
   - Author: Charlton A, Töpf A, Breedveld GJ, et al.
   - DOI: 10.1002/mus.25425

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**