---
title: "MFF"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene MFF"
tags: ['GeneMFF', 'MitochondrialDynamics', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'MetabolicDisorders', 'CardiovascularDiseases', 'MusculoskeletalDisorders', 'CoQ10', 'MitochondrialDiseases']
---

# Gene MFF

## Information

- Gene: MFF
- Genomic location: Chromosome 22 (22q11.21)
- Aliases: MFF, CGI-61, CGI61

## Function
MFF (Mitochondrial Fission Factor) is a protein-coding gene that plays a crucial role in the regulation of mitochondrial dynamics. It regulates mitochondrial fission, a process of dividing mitochondria into small parts, which is necessary for proper mitochondrial function, distribution, and turnover.

## External IDs and Links
- HGNC: 24312
- NCBI Entrez: 84503
- Ensembl: ENSG00000183691
- OMIM: 614265
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96D03

## Mutations

- AA mutation list: MFF has 8 exons, which produce different isoforms of the gene. Multiple variants of these isoforms are known to be associated with Mitochondrial Diseases.
- Mutation type: Single base-pair substitutions, insertions, deletions, copy number variations, and splice site mutations.
- dbSNP ID: rs200538373, rs3767697, rs150990269, rs758678057 are few of the SNPs associated with MFF gene.

## Related Diseases
- Neurological disorders like Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)
- Metabolic disorders like Diabetes mellitus and obesity.
- Cardiovascular diseases like hypertension, arrhythmias, and myocardial infarction.
- Musculoskeletal disorders like Osteoporosis.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment available for MFF-associated diseases. The treatment usually focuses on symptom management. For mitochondrial diseases, Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) has been prescribed as a promising therapy, which is an important electron carrier in the respiratory chain.

## Drug response
No known drug is available that specifically targets MFF.

## Related papers
- Subject: Mitochondrial dynamics in neurodegenerative diseases
- Author name: Su B, Wang X
- DOI link: [10.1007/s00401-013-1103-6]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00401-013-1103-6))

- Subject: Mitochondrial Dynamics in Cardiovascular Health and Disease
- Author name: Wang W, Wang X, Fujioka H, Hoppel C, Whone AL, Caldwell MA, Cullen PJ
- DOI link: [10.3390/cells9040944]([Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/cells9040944))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**