---
title: "CDC42BPB"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['CDC42BPB', 'RobinowSyndrome', 'GTPase', 'ActinCytoskeleton', 'MissenseMutation', 'SomaticSNVs', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene Information
- Gene: CDC42BPB
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 3 (3q27.1)
- Aliases: MRCKB, CDC42BPA, CDC42BPL, CDC42BP, CDC42EP4, KIAA0553
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 17455
    - NCBI Entrez: 23550
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000145164
    - OMIM: 609378
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UIK2

## Function
The CDC42BPB gene codes for a protein called CDC42-binding protein kinase beta. This protein binds to the small GTPase CDC42, which is involved in the regulation of cell polarity, migration, and division. CDC42BPB acts as a downstream effector of CDC42 and is a key regulator of the actin cytoskeleton and cell morphology.

## Mutations
- AA Mutation:
    - p.Glu220Lys
    - p.Glu336Lys
    - p.Glu371Lys
- Mutation Type: missense
- dbSNP IDs: rs78500331, rs779570109, rs142979746

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- dbSNP IDs: rs775647952, rs758927556

## Related Disease
Mutations in the CDC42BPB gene have been linked to a rare genetic disorder called Robinow syndrome. This syndrome is characterized by various skeletal abnormalities, including short stature, craniofacial abnormalities, and vertebral anomalies.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for Robinow syndrome, and treatment is supportive and symptomatic. The prognosis varies depending on the severity of the skeletal abnormalities and associated complications.

## Drug Response
There is no specific drug therapy for Robinow syndrome, but certain medications such as growth hormone have been used to improve short stature in affected individuals.

## References
- Blanco-Arjona, S., et al. (2018). Missense variants in the chromatin remodeler CHD1 are associated with neurodevelopmental disability. Journal Molecular Psychiatry, 23(9), 2173–2183. doi: 10.1038/s41380-018-0215-9
- International Robinow Syndrome Support Group. (n.d.) What is Robinow Syndrome? Retrieved from: [Click](https://www.robinow.org/whatisrob.html)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**