---
title: "EHMT1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene EHMT1"
tags: ['EHMT1', 'KleefstraSyndrome', 'HistoneMethyltransferase', 'GeneExpression', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene EHMT1

## Genetic Position

The EHMT1 gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 9 at position 34.3 (9p34.3).

## Pathology

Mutations in the EHMT1 gene are associated with a rare genetic disorder known as Kleefstra syndrome. This syndrome is characterized by intellectual disability, delayed speech and language development, low muscle tone, and distinctive facial features.

## Function

The EHMT1 protein is a histone methyltransferase that is involved in the regulation of gene expression. It specifically adds methyl groups to the lysine 9 residue of histone H3, resulting in transcriptional repression of target genes. 

## External IDs and Aliases

- Gene ID: 79813
- Genomic Location: NC_000009.11 (8960864..9139166, complement)
- HGNC ID: 25551
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000172012
- OMIM ID: 610253
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H9B1
- Aliases: KMT1D,  C9orf4, G9a-like protein 1, GLP, Kleefstra syndrome

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are various mutations in the EHMT1 gene that have been reported in individuals with Kleefstra syndrome. These include missense, nonsense, frameshift, and splice site mutations. Some of the reported mutations in the EHMT1 gene with their dbSNP IDs are:

- c.4921G>A (p.W1641X) rs376870767
- c.827delC (p.H276fs) rs397515439
- c.3902G>T (p.E1301X) rs370260745

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID for EHMT1 gene.

## Related Disease

Mutations in the EHMT1 gene are associated with Kleefstra syndrome, a rare genetic disorder.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no cure for Kleefstra syndrome and treatment is focused on managing symptoms. This may include medications for seizures, physical therapy, speech therapy, and special education programs. The prognosis for individuals with Kleefstra syndrome can vary depending on the severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response

There are no specific drugs identified to treat Kleefstra syndrome.

## Related Papers

- Kleefstra Syndrome. Kleefstra T, de Leeuw N. In: Adam MP, Ardinger HH, Pagon RA, et al., editors. GeneReviews® [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of Washington, Seattle; 2001-2019.
- EHMT1 (Eu-HMTase1) mutations in Kleefstra syndrome: a review. Koemans TS, Kleefstra T, Chubak MC, Stone MH, Reijnders MRF, de Munnik SA. Am J Med Genet C Semin Med Genet. 2019;181(2):316-324. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.c.31673.
- Clinical and genetic aspects of Kleefstra syndrome: three unreported cases and a review. Battaglia A et al. Am J Med Genet A. (2013)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**