---
title: "CP"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene CP"
tags: ['GeneCP', 'Ceruloplasmin', 'IronMetabolism', 'Aceruloplasminemia', 'NeurologicalSymptoms', 'IronChelationTherapy', 'GeneticDisorder', 'FerroxidaseActivity']
---

# Gene CP
### Gene Function
The CP gene encodes a protein called Ceruloplasmin, which is involved in the transport of copper ions in the bloodstream. It also has ferroxidase activity, which plays a role in the regulation of iron metabolism. 

### Gene Information
- External IDs: HGNC:2452, NCBI Gene ID:1356, Ensembl:ENSG00000171885, OMIM:117700, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P00450
- Genomic location: Chromosome 3q24-qter
- Aliases: Ceruloplasmin, Ferroxidase

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No mutations found

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic mutations found

### Related Disease
Low levels of ceruloplasmin in the bloodstream can lead to a rare genetic disorder known as aceruloplasminemia. This disease is characterized by the accumulation of iron in the brain, leading to symptoms such as tremors, difficulty in walking, and dementia. 

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for aceruloplasminemia. Treatment is primarily symptomatic and supportive, consisting of iron chelation therapy and addressing neurological symptoms. The prognosis for aceruloplasminemia is generally poor, with a decline in neurological function over time.

### Drug Response
There is limited information on drug response for aceruloplasminemia due to its rarity. Some studies have suggested a potential benefit from iron chelation therapy in reducing the accumulation of iron in the brain.

### Related Papers and DOI links
- [Aceruloplasminemia: An Update on Clinical Features, Genetics, Pathophysiology and Treatment](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms22105451)) by Giulia D’Oria et al.
- [Ceruloplasmin in neurodegenerative diseases](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2020.01.026)) by Christian Njus and Andreas Møllerløkken.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**