---
title: "KIF7"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: KIF7"
tags: ['KIF7', 'HedgehogSignaling', 'GeneticMutation', 'Syndromes', 'NeuralTubeDefects', 'Polydactyly', 'JoubertSyndrome', 'MotorProteins']
---

## Gene: KIF7

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 15
- Location: q26.1
- Strand: Plus strand (+)

### Pathology
KIF7 has been implicated in a variety of syndromes such as craniofacial anomalies (CFAs), neural tube defects (NTDs), and skeletal anomalies. Mutations in KIF7 have been found to cause acrocallosal syndrome with polydactyly (ACLS), hydrolethalus syndrome (HLS), Joubert syndrome 13 (JBTS13), and other related disorders.

### Function
The KIF7 gene encodes a protein called kinesin family member 7 (KIF7), which is a member of the kinesin family of motor proteins. KIF7 plays a crucial role in the Hedgehog signaling pathway that regulates embryonic development. It is responsible for the transport of key protein complexes that initiate and maintain the signaling cascade.

### External IDs
- HGNC: 23457
- NCBI Entrez: 57529
- Ensembl: ENSG00000162475
- OMIM: 611254
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q2M222

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.2960C>T (p.R987C) rs142692187
- c.2960C>A (p.R987S) rs142019811

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No Somatic SNVs or Indels have been found to date.

### Related Disease
- Acrocallosal syndrome with Polydactyly (ACLS)
- Hydrolethalus syndrome (HLS)
- Joubert syndrome 13 (JBTS13)

### Treatment and prognosis
There is no specific cure or treatment available for the disorders caused by KIF7 mutations. Current treatment options are aimed at managing individual symptoms and improving the quality of life.

### Drug response
Currently, there is no drug available that targets KIF7 specifically. However, some drugs used to treat cancer that target kinesin motor proteins may have an indirect effect on KIF7.

### Related Papers
- Subject: KIF7 gene and its association with human malformations
- Author: Daniele Merico, Ruxuan Wang
- DOI: 10.1186/s13039-017-0310-7

- Subject: KIF7 mutations in Joubert syndrome
- Author: Thomas J. R. Hughes
- DOI: 10.1177/0883073807308660

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**