---
title: "FGFR1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene FGFR1"
tags: ['FGFR1', 'GeneticInformation', 'Pathology', 'Function', 'Disease', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene FGFR1

**Pathology:** Mutations in the FGFR1 gene have been associated with various diseases including Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism, Kallmann Syndrome, Pfeiffer Syndrome, and Crouzon Syndrome.

**Function:** FGFR1 gene encodes a member of the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) family. Members of this family are involved in important processes such as cell division, differentiation, and development. FGFR1 specifically plays a crucial role in the development and maintenance of the nervous, skeletal and cardiovascular systems.

**External IDs:**

- HGNC ID: 3688
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 2260
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000077782
- OMIM ID: 136350
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P11362

**Aliases:** BFGFR, CD331, CEK, FGFBR, FLG, FLT-2, Hs.74606, KAL2, N-SAM, N-SAM-1, FGFR-1.

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** 

- **V561M:** rs121913495 (pathogenic)
- **G370C:** rs28897696 (pathogenic)
- **N546K:** rs121913494 (pathogenic)

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

- **C1620T** (missense): rs119994471
- **C1673A** (silent): rs778666503
- **G336A** (splice site acceptor): rs558133348

**Related disease:** 
- Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism
- Kallmann Syndrome
- Pfeiffer Syndrome
- Crouzon Syndrome

**Treatment and prognosis:** In the case of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, hormone replacement therapy may be an effective treatment option. Pfeiffer syndrome and Crouzon syndrome may require surgical intervention. There is limited information regarding the prognosis for these diseases.

**Drug response:** FGFR inhibitors like ponatinib, pazopanib, and dovitinib have shown efficacy in treating patients with FGFR genetic alterations.

**Related papers:**

- Subject: FGFR1 mutations in Kallmann syndrome
- Author: Pitteloud N et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1210/jc.2005-1671)

- Subject: Pfeiffer syndrome and FGFR1 mutations 
- Author: Muenke M et al. 
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/35103556)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**