---
title: "DIRC2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene DIRC2:"
tags: ['DIRC2', 'Ciliopathy', 'NPHP', 'JBTS', 'GeneticDisease', 'Cilia', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis']
---

## Information about gene DIRC2:
Gene DIRC2 is located on chromosome 9q21.13 and encodes for the DIRC2 protein. The gene has 14 exons and spans about 52.99 kb of genomic DNA. DIRC2 is mainly expressed in the brain and has a proposed function in maintaining the integrity of the cilia, which are hair-like structures on the surface of cells that play a crucial role in generating sensory signals.

### Function:
The DIRC2 protein is involved in cilium-related processes such as ciliogenesis and intraflagellar transport and defects in this gene can lead to ciliopathy-related syndromes such as nephronophthisis (NPHP) and Joubert syndrome (JBTS).

### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC ID: 17777
- NCBI Entrez ID: 56208
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000165058
- OMIM ID: 611283
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q86SQ7
- Aliases: C9orf72, FLJ20743, FTM, WDR19

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
There are known mutations in the DIRC2 gene that are associated with genetic diseases, such as NPHP and JBTS. Some of the mutations include:

| Mutation Type | AA Mutation | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Missense | p.Arg548Trp | rs758215756 |
| Nonsense | p.Arg692* | rs369693204 |
| Frameshift | p.Leu898Serfs*2 | rs1428712192 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
Currently, there is limited information about somatic mutations in the DIRC2 gene.

### Related disease:
DIRC2 mutations have been found to be associated with several ciliopathy-related syndromes, including NPHP and JBTS.

### Treatment and prognosis:
As of now, there is no specific treatment available for DIRC2-related genetic diseases. However, management of symptoms and complications associated with ciliopathy-related syndromes, such as kidney dysfunctions, may improve the prognosis.

### Drug response:
There is limited information regarding drug response associated with DIRC2-related genetic diseases.

### Related Papers:
- **Subject:** Nephronophthisis (NPHP) Genes: When to Test? How to Test? What to Expect? PMID: 30316665
- **Author Name:** Hilde Breuning and Rachel H. Giles. 
- **DOI:** 10.1038/s41581-018-0066-z

- **Subject:** Mutations in the evolutionarily conserved MKS1 and C2orf86 genes are a hallmark of oro-facial-digital syndrome type VI. PMID: 20206331 
- **Author Name:** Dorien Lugtenberg, et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1002/humu.21212

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**