---
title: "CD8A"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene CD8A"
tags: ['CD8A', 'GeneFunction', 'AAmutations', 'SomaticMutations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information on Gene CD8A

## Gene Position and Aliases
* Gene Name: CD8A
* Genomic Location: Chromosome 2, region q11.2
* Aliases: CD8, LEU2, MAL, p32, T8, Lyt-2

## Function of CD8A Gene
- CD8A is a gene that encodes for the CD8 protein. This protein is found on the surface of certain T cells called cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). 
- The CD8 protein plays an important role in recognizing and binding to antigenic peptides that are presented on the surface of virus-infected or cancerous cells. 
- This binding between CD8 and antigenic peptides results in the activation of CTLs and subsequent destruction of the antigen-presenting cells.

## External IDs for CD8A Gene and Genomic Location
- HGNC ID: HGNC:1697
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000153571
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 925

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- There are numerous AA mutations that have been reported for CD8A gene. Listed below are some of the reported mutations with their mutation type and dbSNP ID:
    - c.235G>A (p.Arg79His) SNP ID: rs4978136
    - c.389C>T (p.Ser130Leu) SNP ID: rs34331795
    - c.428T>G (p.Ile143Met) SNP ID: rs104894409

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Somatic mutations in CD8A gene have been reported in various cancers. Here are some examples:
    - c.305dup (p.Asn102fs) SNP ID: COSM246308 
    - c.271dupC (p.Gln91Profs*28) SNP ID: COSM791974 
    - c.77C>T (p.Gln26*) SNP ID: COSM5391986 

## Related Disease
- CD8A gene is associated with autoimmune and infectious diseases. Some examples are:
    - Multiple Sclerosis 
    - Rheumatoid Arthritis
    - Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- The treatment and prognosis of diseases related to CD8A gene mutations and dysregulation depend on the specific disease and its severity. 
- In some cases, immunotherapy treatments that target the CD8 protein are used to boost the immune response against cancer cells.

## Drug Response
- There are no known drugs that specifically target CD8A gene.

## Related Papers
1. **Subject:** Association of CD8A gene polymorphisms with Multiple Sclerosis susceptibility  
**Author:** Nielsen, Mandy M.   
**DOI:** 10.1186/s12974-015-0315-z  
**External Link:** [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4628041/)

2. **Subject:** CD8A gene variations and HIV disease progression: a review  
**Author:** Ali, Syed K.   
**DOI:** 10.1016/j.meegid.2016.02.024  
**External Link:** [Click](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1567134816300462?via%3Dihub)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**