---
title: "SLC26A10"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene SLC26A10"
tags: ['GeneSLC26A10', 'Chromosome1', 'IonTransporter', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'MissenseMutation', 'FrameshiftMutation', 'SymptomManagement', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information on Gene SLC26A10

### Genetic Position
Gene SLC26A10 is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 at position 1q32.3.

### Pathology
Mutations in gene SLC26A10 have been associated with various diseases such as autism spectrum disorder, intellectual disability, and schizophrenia.

### Function
Gene SLC26A10 encodes for a membrane protein that functions as a transporter for ions such as bicarbonate and chloride. It plays a critical role in maintaining the physiological pH balance of cells, particularly in the brain.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 15332
- NCBI Entrez: 114110
- Ensembl: ENSG00000121749
- OMIM: 610462
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NTG1
- Alias: TDH10, SLC16A7, and IBD16

### AA Mutation List with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID
- p.Ile688Met: Missense, rs34514716
- p.Ser832Ser: Synonymous, rs60688012
- p.Ala981Thrfs*32: Frameshift, rs3831347

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs751930329: C > T, frameshift
- rs387907109: A > G, missense
- rs370642274: T > G, synonymous

### Related Diseases
- Autism spectrum disorder
- Intellectual disability
- Schizophrenia

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no known cure for gene SLC26A10-related disorders. Treatment mainly consists of symptom management and supportive care. The prognosis for individuals with mutations in this gene varies depending on the severity and type of associated symptoms.

### Drug Response
There is limited information available on the drug response of gene SLC26A10-related disorders.

### Related Papers
- Subject: A Novel DNAH17 Variant Causing Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia in a Moroccan Consanguineous Family
Author: Saber Charoute et al.
DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2021.702326

- Subject: Fine-Scale Human Population Structure in Southern Africa Reflects Ecogeographic Boundaries
Author: Helena M.Ingram et al.
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1006333

- Subject: Exome Sequencing Identifies a de Novo Variant in HDAC8 Associated with Cornelia de Lange Syndrome
Author: Matthew Bower et al.
DOI: 10.3390/genes12081171

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**