---
title: "CDH5"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## CDH5 Gene Information"
tags: ['CDH5', 'Angiogenesis', 'Cadherin', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

## CDH5 Gene Information

### Gene Position
The CDH5 gene is located on human chromosome 16 at position q22.1.

### Pathology 
CDH5 gene is associated with various diseases such as diabetic retinopathy, diabetic nephropathy, and multiple types of cancers.

### Function
CDH5 is a type II classical cadherin glycoprotein that plays a key role in endothelial cell to cell adhesion and angiogenesis.

### External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
External IDs: HGNC:1747, NCBI Gene ID:1003, Ensembl:ENSG00000065613, OMIM:601120, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P33151

Aliases: CD144, CDH5, Cadherin-5, VE-Cadherin

Genomic Location: Chromosome 16: 70,875,008- 70,915,417

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.R207Q (rs1801552)
- p.R482W (rs61754524)
- p.T771M (rs61754523)
- p.V820I (rs140198640)

Mutation Type: Missense Mutation

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs560902146
- rs1057519451

### Related Disease
- Diabetic Retinopathy
- Diabetic Nephropathy
- Breast Cancer
- Colorectal Cancer
- Prostate Cancer

### Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis depend on the type of disease associated with the CDH5 gene mutation. In general, the inhibition of angiogenesis by blocking CDH5 signaling could be an effective therapeutic approach for cancer treatment. 

### Drug Response
Few studies have investigated the drug response associated with CDH5 gene mutations. Some of the possible drugs that can inhibit CDH5 signaling are monoclonal antibodies, receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and tyrosine kinase inhibitors.

### References
- Zhang H et al., Inhibition of endothelial cell proliferation and tumor angiogenesis by up-regulating NDRG2 expression in breast cancer cells. PLoS One. 2012;7(8):e43457.
- Kangsamaksin T et al., CCM1-CCM2 complex controls endothelial and hematopoietic cell polarity through Rho GTPases. Cell Rep. 2017 Aug 1;20(5):990-1004.
- Yao M et al., CDH5/VE-cadherin-mediated cell-cell contact regulates endothelial angiogenesis by accelerating VE-cadherin internalization and degradation. PLoS One. 2015 May 21;10(5):e0125686.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**