---
title: "PHEX"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PHEX"
tags: ['GenePHEX', 'XLH', 'PhosphateHomeostasis', 'FGF23', 'Burosumab', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene PHEX

## Genetic position
- PHEX gene is located on the X chromosome at the q26.1 position.

## Pathology
- PHEX gene mutations are associated with X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH), which results in impaired bone growth and mineralization due to low phosphate levels.
- XLH is characterized by rickets, osteomalacia, and dental abnormalities.

## Function
- The PHEX gene encodes a protein called phosphate-regulating endopeptidase homolog, which plays a crucial role in phosphate homeostasis.
- PHEX acts as a negative regulator of fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23), which is involved in the regulation of phosphate absorption and metabolism.

## External IDs 
- HGNC: 8832
- NCBI Entrez: 5251
- Ensembl: ENSG00000102482
- OMIM: 307800
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P78562

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.176C>T; p.Arg59Cys (rs104894451)
- c.238C>T; p.Arg80Ter (rs104893981)
- c.617C>T; p.Gln206Ter (rs104893996)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Currently, there are no reported somatic variants in the PHEX gene with dbSNP ID.

## Related disease
- X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH)

## Treatment and prognosis
- The treatment of XLH is focused on correcting the phosphate deficient state and preventing the long-term complications associated with the disease.
- Treatment options include oral phosphate supplementation, active vitamin D analogs, and surgical intervention.
- The prognosis for XLH patients depends on the severity of the disease and the age at diagnosis.

## Drug response
- The medication burosumab, a monoclonal antibody against FGF23, has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of XLH in children and adults.

## Related papers
- [Hypophosphatemia: an evidence-based approach to its clinical consequences and management]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11892-011-0232-9)
- [X-linked hypophosphatemia: dental and histologic findings]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1177/0022034519885437)
- [Burosumab: A Review in X-Linked Hypophosphatemia]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40265-019-01182-0)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**