---
title: "USB1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for USB1 Gene"
tags: ['USB1Gene', 'mRNAsplicing', 'PoikilodermaWithNeutropenia', 'MissenseMutations', 'SkinPigmentation', 'IncreasedSusceptibilityToInfections', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'GenotypePhenotypeCorrelation']
---

# Gene Information for USB1 Gene

## Gene Position
The USB1 gene is located on chromosome 6 at the position 6q15. It spans 42.76 kb of DNA and consists of 17 exons.

## Pathology and Function 
The USB1 gene encodes for the enzyme U6 snRNA phosphodiesterase, which is involved in mRNA splicing. Mutations in the USB1 gene have been associated with a rare autosomal recessive disorder called poikiloderma with neutropenia (PN), which is characterized by skin pigmentation, atrophy, and an increased susceptibility to infections.

## Gene External IDs
- HGNC: 12693
- NCBI Entrez: 54751
- Ensembl: ENSG00000112295
- OMIM: 612301
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5TGC9

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
The USB1 gene has several missense mutations that have been associated with PN. The following is a list of some of the mutations along with the dbSNP ID and mutation type:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Q143H | Missense | rs3832265 |
| L147P | Missense | rs121909829 |
| R190W | Missense | rs119478257 |
| D286G | Missense | rs121909830 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no somatic mutations reported for the USB1 gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the USB1 gene have been associated with poikiloderma with neutropenia (PN), which is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that affects multiple organs. The disease is characterized by skin pigmentation, atrophy, and an increased susceptibility to infections. Patients with PN also have an increased risk for tumors.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no known cure for PN, and treatment is mainly supportive. Patients should avoid sun exposure and pay close attention to skin hygiene to prevent infections. Prognosis varies depending on the extent of skin damage and the frequency of infections.

## Drug Response
There are no drugs specific to PN, and treatment is mainly supportive.

## Related Papers
- 	Bhat, Y.R., Naik, H. Mutation Spectrum of Poikiloderma with Neutropenia in Indian Patients. Indian J Hematol Blood Transfus 37, 493–501 (2021). [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12288-020-01320-3)
- Favara, D.M., Azzarà, A., Raciti, M.T. et al. Genotype/phenotype correlation in poikiloderma with neutropenia: report of 12 Spliceosome mutations and review of literature. Orphanet J Rare Dis 16, 190 (2021). [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13023-021-01820-7)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**