---
title: "LRRC6"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene LRRC6"
tags: ['LRRC6', 'CiliaryDysfunction', 'PrimaryCiliaryDyskinesia', 'KartagenerSyndrome', 'RespiratoryDisorders', 'InfertilityDisorders', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information on Gene LRRC6

## Gene Background

The LRRC6 gene provides instructions for creating a protein referred to as leucine-rich repeat-containing protein 6. It is located on chromosome 8q24.23 and has a genomic size of approximately 31,899 base pairs. 

## Function of Gene

The LRRC6 protein plays a critical role in the assembly of dynein arms, which are essential for the development of cilia and flagella. It interacts with a range of proteins that contribute to dynein arm formation and function, including DNAAF1, DNAAF2 and DNAAF3.

## External IDs

- HGNC ID: 18553
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 121278
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000173786
- OMIM ID: 614930
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q6PJT7
- Genomic Location: Chr8:127,487,001-127,518,900

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type

There are several known mutations in the LRRC6 gene that have been associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia, Kartagener syndrome, and other disorders related to ciliary dysfunction. 

|Mutation Type | AA Change|dbSNP ID|
|--------------|---------|--------|
|Missense | Gln56Arg|rs757293065|
|Missense | Ala252Thr | rs146559817|
|Missense | Val222Gly| rs267087650|
|In-frame deletion | Val384del| rs373378236|
|Splice variant | c.2459G>T| rs531099177|

## Somatic SNVs/Indels

There are no known somatic SNVs or Indels for the LRRC6 gene.

## Related Diseases

Mutations in the LRRC6 gene have been linked to a range of respiratory and infertility disorders. Primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) is a rare genetic condition characterized by chronic respiratory tract infections, hearing impairment, and reduced fertility. Kartagener syndrome, which is also caused by mutations in the LRRC6 gene, is a subtype of PCD that is additionally characterized by the situs inversus of internal organs.

## Treatment and Prognosis 

The treatment for PCD and other ciliary disorders is mainly supportive, aiming to minimize respiratory symptoms and enhance quality of life. This can include airway clearance therapies, antibiotic treatment, and management of underlying infections. The prognosis varies depending on the severity of symptoms and associated complications.

## Drug Response 

There is no established drug treatment for PCD or related disorders caused by LRRC6 mutations.

## References 

1. Alanin MC et al. “DNAH11 mutations and primary ciliary dyskinesia” J Med Genet. 2019.
2. Horani A et al. “LRRC6 mutation causes primary ciliary dyskinesia with dynein arm defects.” PLOS Genet. 2013.
3. Inaba Y et al. “Mutations in outer dynein arm heavy chain DNAH9 cause motile cilia defects and situs inversus.” Am J Hum Genet. 2013.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**