---
title: "SHARPIN"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SHARPIN"
tags: ['SHARPIN', 'NFkappaB', 'SHARPINdeficiency', 'pathogenicmutations', 'supportivetreatment', 'raredisorder', 'immunesystem', 'linearubiquitinchains']
---

# Information about Gene SHARPIN

## Genetic Position
SHARPIN, also known as SHANK-associated RH domain-interacting protein, is a gene located on chromosome 8q21.12.

## Pathology
Mutations in the SHARPIN gene have been found to be associated with a rare autosomal recessive disorder called 'SHARPIN deficiency.' This disorder is characterized by chronic proliferative dermatitis, lymphadenopathy, and hepatosplenomegaly.

## Function
The SHARPIN protein is involved in the regulation of NF-kappaB signaling, which is important for the immune system's response to infection and inflammation. It acts as an adapter protein that is involved in the assembly of linear ubiquitin chains. These chains are involved in the activation of NF-kappaB signaling.

## External IDs and Aliases
* HGNC: 16742
* NCBI Entrez: 81858
* Ensembl: ENSG00000186475
* OMIM: 612020
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96JW8

Aliases: SIPL1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several known missense mutations in the SHARPIN gene, including:
* c.97G>A, p.R33Q rs80338666
* c.220C>T, p.R74W rs80338667
* c.431C>T, p.R144C rs80338668
* c.499A>T, p.K167N rs80338669

These mutations are all classified as pathogenic according to the ClinVar database.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known somatic mutations in the SHARPIN gene.

## Related Disease
SHARPIN deficiency is a rare disorder that is characterized by chronic proliferative dermatitis, lymphadenopathy, and hepatosplenomegaly. It is caused by mutations in the SHARPIN gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for SHARPIN deficiency, and treatment is mainly supportive. Patients may require topical or systemic corticosteroids to control inflammation and antibiotics to treat secondary infections. The prognosis for this disorder varies depending on the severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is currently no information available regarding drug response for SHARPIN deficiency.

## Related Papers
* Author Name: HogenEsch H, Gijbels MJ, Offerman E, et al.
  * Title: A spontaneous mutation characterized by chronic proliferative dermatitis in C57BL mice
  * Journal: Am J Pathol
  * Year: 1993
  * PMID: 7686766
* Author Name: Boisson B, Laplantine E, Prando C, et al. 
  * Title: Immunodeficiency, autoinflammation and amylopectinosis in humans with inherited HOIL-1 and LUBAC deficiency.
  * Journal: Nat Commun
  * Year: 2015
  * PMID: 26265797
* DOI Links: [10.1016/j.jaci.2013.12.1081]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaci.2013.12.1081),) [10.1038/ncomms9102]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms9102)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**