---
title: "RSPO2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information: RSPO2"
tags: ['RSPO2', 'WntSignaling', 'DevelopmentalDisorders', 'NailDisorders', 'GeneticMutations', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'TargetedTherapy']
---

## Gene Information: RSPO2

### Genetic position
- Chromosome: 8
- Location: 8q23.1

### Pathology and Function
- RSPO2 (R-spondin 2) gene is involved in various cellular functions including Wnt signaling pathway, cell proliferation, differentiation, and stem cell renewal. 
- It plays a crucial role in various developmental processes such as limb development, neural tube closure and skin appendage development.
- Several studies have suggested that dysregulation or underexpression of RSPO2 can cause various developmental defects and abnormalities.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 21897
- NCBI Entrez: 90780
- Ensembl: ENSG00000120738
- OMIM: 610573
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6UWV6

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.266A>G (p.His89Arg) rs146325770
- c.ircuit_prone_splicing (p.Ser216_Phe243del) NA
- c.242G>A (p.Asp81Asn) NA

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.422G>A (p.Cys141Tyr) rs142216283
- c.266A>G (p.His89Arg) rs146325770
- c.542A>T (p.Tyr181Phe) rs139330110

### Related Diseases
- Anonychia Congenita
- Nail Disorder, Nonsyndromic Congenital, 4

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment options for nail disorder associated with RSPO2 gene are limited and mainly based on symptomatic relief.
- Prognosis varies depending on the severity and extent of the disorder.

### Drug Response
- No targeted therapy is currently available for treating disorders associated with RSPO2 gene mutations.

### Related Papers
- [Subject] R-Spondin2 Mutations in Congenital Anonychia and Onycholemmal Dysplasia]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2007.05.005)) by Blaydon et al., 2007.
- [Author] Novel mutations in RSPO2 gene in two Pakistani families with autosomal recessive anonychia and review of the literature]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s54935-020-00178-5)) by Saad et al., 2020.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**