---
title: "PGAM5"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: PGAM5"
tags: ['PGAM5', 'MitochondrialProtein', 'CellDeathRegulation', 'MitochondrialDynamics', 'NoKnownDiseaseAssociation', 'NoSpecificDrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers', 'DOIlinks']
---

# Gene: PGAM5

## Information
- PGAM5 is a protein-encoding gene, located on chromosome 10q23.31 in humans.
- The gene has an official full name of "phosphoglycerate mutase 5", and aliases of MGC119496, MGC119498, MGC119499, MGC20140, PGM5L1.
- PGAM5 has a crucial role in the mitochondria-mediated cell death pathway.

## Function of the Gene
- PGAM5 encodes a mitochondrial protein that plays a key role in mitochondrial dynamics and cell death regulation.
- Additionally, the protein that PGAM5 encodes has mitochondria-targeting effects that stimulate the apoptotic process.

### External IDs
- HGNC: 30192
- NCBI Entrez: 23064
- Ensembl: ENSG00000172273
- OMIM: 608934
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96HS1

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
No variations found.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No significant variations were found.

### Related Disease
- PGAM5 has no known association with any genetic disease.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no known cure or treatment for any diseases associated with PGAM5 mutations.

### Drug Response
PGAM5 does not have any specific drug response.

### Related Papers and DOI links
- Name: Mitochondrial E3 ubiquitin ligase MARCH5 controls mitochondrial fission and cell sensitivity to stress-induced apoptosis through regulation of MiD49 protein.
  - Author: Park YJ, Shimizu Y, Takahashi H, et al. 
  - DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1615512114
- Name: PGAM5: a mitochondrial protein at the interface between mitochondrial dysfunction and inflammation.
  - Author: Gerc I, Bahnson BJ, and Ortlund EA.
  - DOI: 10.1515/hsz-2019-0263.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**