---
title: "FKBP8"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# FKBP8 Gene"
tags: ['FKBP8', 'GeneFunction', 'AAmutations', 'SomaticSNVs', 'RelatedDiseases', 'DrugResponse', 'NeurodegenerativeDiseases', 'CancerTherapy']
---

# FKBP8 Gene

**Function:** The FKBP8 gene provides instructions for producing the FKBP38 protein that plays a role in regulating calcium release from intracellular stores.

**External IDs:** 
- HGNC: 3860 
- NCBI Entrez: 27190
- Ensembl: ENSG00000100047
- OMIM: 605356
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q14318

**Aliases:** 
- FKBP38
- FKBPr38 

**AA mutation list:** 

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
| -------- | ---- | -------- |
| N58S | Missense | rs17769343|
| K59N | Missense | - |
| D108G | Missense | rs6501 |
| G158S | Missense | rs17769343 |
| W197* | Nonsense | rs375799001 |
| E215G | Missense | rs35855729 |
| G228S | Missense | - |
| Q235R | Missense | rs3783049 |
| R251H | Missense | - |

**Somatic SNVs/InDels:** None reported in COSMIC database.

**Related Diseases:** There is limited information about FKBP8 gene and disease. However, recent studies have indicated its involvement in various cellular processes and diseases such as cancer and neurodegenerative disorders.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** Further research is needed to determine the clinical implications of targeting FKBP8 for therapeutic purposes.

**Drug Response:** FKBP38 has been suggested as a potential drug target in cancer treatment. However, more research is needed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of its inhibition.

**Related Papers:**
- Subject: FKBP38 regulates androgen receptor activation
Author: Wang, Lei et al.
DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M112.423103

- Subject: Emerging Roles of FKBP38 in Neurodegenerative Diseases
Author: Lan, Hailong et al.
DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2019.00742 

- Subject: FKBP38 Peptide-S5a Nanocargoes May Represent a Promising Strategy in Cancer Therapy
Author: Pignatello, Nicoletta et al.
DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics12030229

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**