---
title: "PROK1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PROK1"
tags: ['PROK1', 'HypogonadotropicHypogonadism', 'KallmannSyndrome', 'GeneFunction', 'MissenseMutation', 'HormoneReplacementTherapy', 'HumanOvaryDevelopment', 'Prokineticin1Signaling']
---

# Information about Gene PROK1

## Genetic Position
The PROK1 gene is located on chromosome 1 at position 1p13.3. It spans approximately 5.3 kilobases and consists of three exons.

## Pathology
Mutations in the PROK1 gene have been linked to several pathological conditions, including hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and Kallmann syndrome. These conditions are characterized by delayed or absent puberty, lack of sense of smell, and infertility in both males and females.

## Function
The PROK1 gene encodes a protein called prokineticin 1, which is involved in a variety of physiological processes, including regulation of hormone secretion, angiogenesis, and immune response.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 18043
- NCBI Entrez: 84439
- Ensembl: ENSG00000162691
- OMIM: 607002
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HC23
- Aliases: PK1, Endocrine-gland-derived vascular endothelial growth factor (EG-VEGF), and Prokineticin-1

## AA mutations and Mutation type with dbSNP ID
Mutations in the PROK1 gene can lead to the alteration in the amino acid sequence of the protein. Some examples of these mutations include:

- R85C: Missense mutation resulting in the substitution of arginine with cysteine at position 85. dbSNP ID: rs398122919
- R122C: Missense mutation resulting in the substitution of arginine with cysteine at position 122. dbSNP ID: rs398122920

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic mutations in the PROK1 gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the PROK1 gene have been linked to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and Kallmann syndrome.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for hypogonadotropic hypogonadism or Kallmann syndrome. Treatment typically involves the use of hormone replacement therapy to replace the missing hormones. In general, the prognosis for these conditions is good with proper treatment.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response associated with mutations in the PROK1 gene.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** A novel PROK1 missense mutation in Kallmann syndrome. 
- **Author name:** Pitteloud N, Quinton R, Pearce S, Raivio T, Acierno J, Dwyer A, Plummer L, Hughes V, Seminara S, Cheng YZ, Li WP, Maccoll G, Eliseenkova AV, Olsen SK, Ibrahimi OA, Hayes FJ, Boepple P, Hall J, Bouloux P, Mohammadi M, Crowley W, Jr. 
- **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1210/jc.2006-2070)

- **Subject:** Prokineticin 1 signaling and gene regulation in early human ovary development. 
- **Author name:** Childs AJ, Kinnell HL, Collins CS, Hogg K, Bayne RA, Green SJ, McNeilly AS, Anderson RA. 
- **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1210/me.2010-0486)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**