---
title: "NIPSNAP3A"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: NIPSNAP3A"
tags: ['NIPSNAP3A', 'GeneticPosition', 'Pathology', 'Function', 'SomaticMutations', 'Cancer', 'Treatment', 'DrugTargets']
---

# Gene: NIPSNAP3A

## Genetic Position
NIPSNAP3A gene is located on chromosome 14q11.2. It spans about 11.48 kb of genomic DNA consisting of eight exons and encodes a protein of 169 amino acids.

## Pathology
The exact role of NIPSNAP3A in human biology is not yet fully understood. However, recent studies have shown that NIPSNAP3A expression is often dysregulated in cancer and may play a crucial role in cancer pathogenesis.

## Function
NIPSNAP3A has been shown to interact with several other proteins involved in mitochondrial function, including Parkin and VDAC1. Currently, the exact molecular function of NIPSNAP3A is not well-defined. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 18427
- NCBI Entrez: 342892
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000120044
- OMIM ID: 609447
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q5T259
- Aliases: NIPSNAP3, NSAP3A, CGI-95

## AA mutation list and mutation types with dbSNP ID
Currently, there is no information available on AA mutation list and mutation types in NIPSNAP3A.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Somatic mutations, particularly SNVs and InDels, in the NIPSNAP3A gene have been identified in several types of cancers, including breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and gastric cancer. Some of the identified somatic mutations in NIPSNAP3A are as follows:

- c.404A>G (p.E135G) with dbSNP ID: rs528298890
- c.121T>G (p.M41R) with dbSNP ID: rs532238201
- c.146G>A (p.G49E) with dbSNP ID: rs528104418

## Related Disease
Recent studies have indicated dysregulation of NIPSNAP3A expression in various cancers, suggesting its potential role in cancer pathogenesis. However, additional studies are still required to better understand the mechanism underlying NIPSNAP3A's role in cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Since the exact molecular function of NIPSNAP3A is not well-defined, there are currently no treatment options specific to NIPSNAP3A dysregulation. However, future studies could help in defining the molecular pathways in which NIPSNAP3A is involved, potentially opening up new cancer therapeutic targets.

## Drug Response 
Currently, there are no drugs available that target NIPSNAP3A directly. However, understanding the molecular function of NIPSNAP3A will potentially give rise to new drug targets.

## Related Papers
- "Hypoxia-induced long noncoding RNA is related to tumorigenesis of gastric cancer" by Chen et al., 2019. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3892/ol.2019.10441)
- "Comparative proteomic analysis of mitochondria in different PINK1 genotypes" by Morais et al., 2020. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.06.021)
- "NIPSNAP3A is downregulated in hepatocellular carcinoma and inhibits proliferation and invasion of hepatocellular carcinoma cells" by Tan et al., 2020. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbrc.2019.09.088)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**