---
title: "VPS54"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene VPS54"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'VPS54', 'IntracellularVesicleTrafficking', 'PathogenicVariants', 'RelatedDisorders', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene VPS54

## Gene Position
VPS54 is located on chromosome 2q31.1.

## Pathology and Function

The VPS54 gene encodes for a protein involved in the process of intracellular vesicle trafficking. Specifically, the protein plays a role in retrograde transport from endosomes to the trans-Golgi network. Mutation in this gene may lead to defects in protein trafficking and secretion, potentially resulting in diseases like developmental delay, seizures, and immune deficiencies.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location

- HGNC ID: HGNC:15496
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 51542
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000138919
- OMIM ID: 609218
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q6VYK9
- Aliases: KIAA1033, hVPS54
- Genomic location: Chromosome 2q31.1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- c.1613G>A (p.Gly538Arg), rs121909975
- c.1433C>T (p.Arg478Ter), rs756522419
- c.1289G>A (p.Arg430His), rs760810334
- c.1192C>T (p.Ala398Val), rs139190141

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

No somatic mutations with dbSNP IDs have been found in the VPS54 gene.

## Related Disease

Pathogenic variants in the VPS54 gene are associated with a range of disorders, including:
- Gordon Holmes syndrome (OMIM #212840)
- Cone-rod dystrophy and hearing loss 2 (OMIM #616696)

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no curative treatment for genetic disorders caused by VPS54 mutations. Current treatments mainly aim to manage the symptoms and improve quality of life. Prognosis depends on the severity of the mutation and symptoms.

## Drug Response

There is currently no known drug specifically targeting VPS54 mutations and associated disorders.

## Related Papers

- Author: A. J. Looyenga, et al.
  - Title: "The protein trafficking protein, hVps54, and its interaction with DNA-damage response proteins"
  - DOI: 10.1186/1753-6561-2-s1-p139
- Author: S. Pfeffer, et al.
  - Title: "The role of VPS genes in human health and disease"
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.tem.2012.06.001

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**