---
title: "ALB"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for ALB"
tags: ['GeneALB', 'SerumAlbumin', 'Hyperthyroxinemia', 'Analbuminemia', 'DrugDelivery', 'MissenseMutation', 'SomaticVariant', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene Information for ALB
## Position
The ALB gene is located on chromosome 4 at the position 74,669,864 - 74,682,534 bp (GRCh38.p13).

## Pathology
Mutations in the ALB gene have been linked to various diseases like hyperthyroxinemia, analbuminemia, and familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia.

## Function
The ALB gene encodes for serum albumin, which is the most abundant protein in the human blood plasma. It plays a crucial role in maintaining colloid osmotic pressure, transporting various molecules and ions, and binding and delivering drugs.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 877
- NCBI Entrez: 213
- Ensembl: ENSG00000163631
- OMIM: 103600
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P02768
- Aliases: ALB, PRO0883

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg218Gln (rs1801320): This is a missense mutation that changes the amino acid arginine to glutamine at position 218 of the protein sequence.
- p.Arg222Ser (rs1801321): This is also a missense mutation where arginine is replaced by serine at position 222.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs11553802: A non-synonymous variant, also known as V482A, has been reported in some individuals with cervical cancer.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the ALB gene have been linked to hyperthyroxinemia, analbuminemia, and familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment and prognosis depend on the underlying disease condition.

## Drug Response
Albumin is widely used as a drug delivery system due to its ability to bind and transport various drugs and molecules. Several drugs like Warfarin and Methotrexate are known to bind with albumin.

## Related Papers
- Author: Iolascon, A., Giordano, M., Cirillo, P., & Gasparini, P.
  - Title: Molecular pathology and gene expression in familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia.
  - DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.6154
- Author: Rivière, C., Richard, E., & Berruyer, M.
  - Title: Analbuminemia updated.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2010.08.023

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**