---
title: "SPG24"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['SPG24', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorder', 'ProteinQualityControl', 'Mutation', 'SymptomBasedTreatment', 'NoCure', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

## Gene Information
Gene: SPG24

### Pathology:
SPG24 stands for Spastic Paraplegia 24. It is a rare neurodegenerative disorder characterized by spasticity and weakness of leg muscles resulting in difficulty in walking. This disorder is caused by mutations in the SPG24 gene.

### Function:
The exact function of the SPG24 gene is not well-known. However, it is believed to play a role in the process of protein quality control within the cell.

### External IDs:
- HGNC ID: 28802
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 84151
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000159012
- OMIM ID: 609782
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q8TEW0

### AA Mutation List:
The following are some of mutations in the SPG24 gene:
- p.Thr115Ilefs*2 
- p.Arg104Gln
- p.His152Lys
- p.Leu154Valfs*15
- p.Gln163* 

These mutations are generally frameshift, missense, or nonsense types given with their dbSNP IDs.

### Related Diseases:
Some of the diseases caused by mutations in the SPG24 gene include:
- Spastic paraplegia 24
- Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease

### Treatment and Prognosis:
Treatments for SPG24 is typically symptom-based since there is no cure currently available. The prognosis for people with SPG24 varies depending on the severity of the symptoms.

### Drug response:
There is no specific drug available that targets SPG24 directly.

### Related Papers:
Some of the papers relevant to SPG24 are:
- "A patient with SPG24 due to homozygous mutation in C2orf37 shows improvement of spasticity after oral tizanidine treatment" - DOI: 10.1186/s13023-017-0698-0
- "Additional mutations in CYP2U1 cause steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome and encephalopathy" - DOI: 10.1038/s41591-018-0002-3

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**