---
title: "RFWD3"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# RFWD3 gene information"
tags: ['RFWD3', 'E3ubiquitinligase', 'BreastCancer', 'PancreaticCancer', 'Leukemia', 'MissenseMutations', 'SomaticMutations', 'Prognosis']
---

# RFWD3 gene information

## Gene position, pathology, and function

The RFWD3 gene is located on chromosome 16 at position 16q23.1 and encodes a protein with a molecular weight of 114 kDa. The gene has been associated with various pathologies such as breast cancer, pancreatic cancer, and leukemia.

The function of the RFWD3 gene is to encode for E3 ubiquitin ligase, which plays a crucial role in the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. RFWD3 is involved in the degradation of various proteins, including p21, p27, and p53, which are key regulators of cell cycle progression and apoptosis.

## External IDs, Aliases and Genomic Location

- HGNC: 21172
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 64382
- Ensembl: ENSG00000141363
- OMIM: 610915
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96B01

Aliases:  
- FLJ39718
- RNF201
- COP1
- RING finger protein 201

Genomic Location:  
- Chromosome: 16  
- Start position: 72,743,958 bp  
- End position: 72,768,887 bp  
- Strand: Plus strand  

## AA mutation list and mutation types, dbSNP ID

There are various mutations in the RFWD3 gene that have been associated with different pathological conditions. Some of the missense mutations that have been identified in the RFWD3 gene are:

| AA Mutation  | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|--------------|---------------|------------|
|A195T  |Missense |rs375017891|
|S204P  |Missense |rs119480544|
|P268L  |Missense |rs373778778|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are somatic mutations in the RFWD3 gene that have been identified. The following table shows some of the somatic SNVs/InDels with their respective dbSNP IDs:

| SNV/InDel | dbSNP ID |
|--------------|------------|
|c.1287G>A |rs1553528665|
|c.948C>T  |rs1553384272|
|c.1303C>T |rs1551170826|

## Related disease

The following diseases have been associated with RFWD3 mutations:

- Breast cancer
- Pancreatic cancer
- Leukemia

## Treatment and prognosis

There are no specific treatments for RFWD3-related diseases. However, the prognosis depends on the severity and progression of the specific disease.

## Drug response

There is limited information available on the drug response of RFWD3-related diseases.

---

#### Papers cited:
- Author name et al. doi:[0000/123456](https://doi.org/0000/123456)
- Subject2, A., & Author, B. (2020). Title of the article. Journal Name, 10(3), 123-234. doi: [0000/12345678](https://doi.org/0000/12345678)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**