---
title: "ECM1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: ECM1"
tags: ['ECM1', 'GeneFunction', 'MutationInformation', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'Orphanet']
---

# Gene: ECM1

## Informational Summary
- **Gene Function:** The ECM1 gene encodes extracellular matrix protein 1 which may play a role in cell adhesion and angiogenesis.
- **External IDs:** HGNC: ECM1, NCBI Entrez: 1893, Ensembl: ENSG00000111247, OMIM: 602201, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q16610
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 1: 237,436,885-237,447,890
- **Aliases:** BM-STATP1, p85, DRAP

## Mutation Information
- **AA Mutation List:** The following is a list of non-synonymous single nucleotide variants (SNVs) in the ECM1 gene with their corresponding amino acid changes and dbSNP IDs:
    - c.491C>T (p.Arg164Trp) rs201926128
    - c.760A>G (p.Tyr254Cys) rs199794045
    - c.878G>A (p.Val293Ile) rs150276312
    - c.880G>A (p.Val294Ile) rs147701757
- **Mutation Type:** Missense
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:** No documented somatic SNVs or InDels found.

## Related Diseases
- Lipoid proteinosis (LiP)
- Proteus syndrome
- Breast cancer
- Non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- No cure is available for lipoid proteinosis, but symptomatic treatments can help control the symptoms.
- Proteus syndrome has no known cure or standard course of treatment. Treatment may involve management of specific symptoms or complications, such as surgeries to correct overgrowth of certain body parts or treatment of tumors.
- Depending on the stage and severity of breast cancer and NSCLC, treatment may involve surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, immunotherapy, or a combination of these.
- The prognosis varies greatly depending on the specific disease, stage, and individual patient factors.

## Drug Response
- No known information on drug response related to genetic mutations in ECM1 gene.

## Sources
- **Author:** Orphanet
- **DOI Link:** [Click](https://www.orpha.net/consor/cgi-bin/gene_symbol.php?lng=EN&data_id=11253&MISSING%20CONTENT=ECM1&search=gene%20symbol%20ECM1)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**