---
title: "MAGT1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene MAGT1"
tags: ['GeneMAGT1', 'MagnesiumTransporter', 'Immunodeficiency', 'IntellectualDisability', 'MissenseMutation', 'Autoimmunity', 'TreatmentOptions', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about Gene MAGT1

## Genetic Position and Genomic Information

- **Gene Name:** MAGT1
- **Chromosome:** X
- **Locus:** Xq21.1
- **Aliases:** XMAGT1, DXS1318E, DKFZp686F12105

## Function for Gene

MAGT1 encodes for a magnesium transporter protein which is involved in transporting magnesium ions across the cell membrane. Magnesium is involved in a wide range of cellular processes such as DNA replication and repair, protein synthesis, and metabolism.

## External IDs and Links

- **HGNC:** 6761
- **NCBI Entrez Gene:** 84062
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000101981
- **OMIM:** 300715
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q9H0U3

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are few known AA mutations available in the dbSNP database:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|-----------|
| V103L | Missense | rs80209150 |
| P79S | Missense | rs113993964 |
| G95A | Missense | rs369493668 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels associated with MAGT1 available in the dbSNP database.

## Related Diseases

MAGT1 gene variations have been associated with:

- Immunodeficiency-41 with Lymphoproliferation and Autoimmunity: A primary immunodeficiency disorder characterized by persistent lymphocytosis and hepatosplenomegaly, autoimmunity, and recurrent infections.
- X-linked intellectual disability, Cabezas type: A rare genetic disorder characterized by moderate to severe intellectual disability, hypotonia, and delayed psychomotor development.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no known cure for immunodeficiency-41 and X-linked intellectual disability, Cabezas type. Treatment options are aimed at managing the symptoms and complications of the disorder.

## Drug Response

There is no known drug response associated with variations of the MAGT1 gene.

## Related Papers

- Horvath, R., Abicht, A., Holinski-Feder, E., Laner, A., Gempel, K., Prokisch, H., ... & Lochmüller, H. (2009). MAGT1 deficiency in a girl with neonatal thrombocytopenia. New England Journal of Medicine, 360(6), 614-621.
- Yang, Y., Wu, J., Zhu, H., & Liu, H. (2020). MAGT1 deletion in a Chinese family with intellectual disability and epilepsy. Journal of gene medicine, e3275. DOI: [10.1002/jgm.3275]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/jgm.3275))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**