---
title: "FGF10"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene FGF10"
tags: ['FGF10', 'GeneFunction', 'GenomicLocation', 'MutationTypes', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene FGF10
## Information about Gene FGF10
FGF10 gene encodes fibroblast growth factor 10, and it is located on chromosome 5 at the position 5p13.2. FGF10 has an assembled size of about 4233 bp, and it codes for a protein of 208 amino acids. FGF10 has several aliases, including KGF-2, Fibroblast growth factor 10, and Keratinocyte growth factor 2.

## Function for Gene FGF10
FGF10 gene plays an important role in embryonic development, specifically in the formation of limbs, lungs, and skin. It is also involved in organogenesis, angiogenesis, wound healing, and tissue regeneration. FGF10 acts as a growth factor, which binds to the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor, initiating downstream signaling pathways.

## External IDs for Gene FGF10
- HGNC: 3694
- NCBI Entrez: 2255
- Ensembl: ENSG00000116478
- OMIM: 602115
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q15738

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
The dbSNP ID, mutation type, and AA Mutation are included below:
- rs121909067: Missense/NS; p.Ser73Pro
- rs3735649: Missense/NS; p.Asp176Gly

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is currently no record of somatic SNPs/InDels for FGF10 in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
FGF10 gene plays a role in several diseases, including:
- Lung Development Abnormalities
- Lung Cancer
- Acne Inversa
- Cleft Palate
- Breast Cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment associated with mutations in FGF10 gene. Treatment is summarized in the context of the related disease. The prognosis of diseases associated with FGF10 gene mutations varies.

## Drug Response
Studies have been conducted to explore the effect of FGF10 gene expression on drug resistance. However, there is currently no evidence indicating drug response in relation to FGF10 gene mutations.

## Related Papers
1. Subject: FGF10 is a prognostic biomarker and correlated with immune infiltrates in gastric cancer
Author: Zhou, Yun-Liang et al.
DOI: 10.1038/s41374-022-00790-9
2. Subject: FGF10 in Breast Cancer as a Molecular Target for Therapeutics and Prognostics
Author: Bhandari, Amit et al.
DOI: 10.1155/2022/3658378
3. Subject: Expression of FGF10 and FGFR2 in lung cancer and its clinical significance.
Author: Yan, Xin
DOI: 10.1186/s12890-015-0144-1

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**