---
title: "EVC2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene EVC2"
tags: ['GeneEVC2', 'EllisVanCreveldSyndrome', 'BoneDevelopment', 'Polydactyly', 'HeartDefects', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'SymptomManagement']
---

# Gene EVC2

The EVc2 gene encodes a protein called "Ellis van Creveld syndrome protein 2", which is involved in embryonic limb development. Mutations in this gene are associated with Ellis-van Creveld syndrome (EVC), a rare autosomal recessive disorder that affects bone growth and development.

## Function

Ellis van Creveld syndrome protein 2 plays a role in the regulation of bone growth and development, particularly in the formation of limbs during embryonic development.

## External IDs

- HGNC: 18208
- NCBI Entrez: 132884
- Ensembl: ENSG00000166190
- OMIM: 607261
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q7Z5L9

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

- c.2993G>A (p.Trp998Ter), rs397515399
- c.2326G>A (p.Arg776His), rs786205207
- c.2024G>A (p.Arg675Gln), rs786205208
- c.1570C>T (p.Arg524Ter), rs756796188

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no known somatic mutations associated with the EVC2 gene.

## Related Disease

Ellis-van Creveld syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that affects bone and tooth development. It is characterized by short stature, polydactyly (extra fingers or toes), nail dysplasia, and heart defects.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no cure for Ellis-van Creveld syndrome. Treatment is usually focused on managing the symptoms of the disorder, which may include surgery to correct heart defects or extra fingers/toes.

## Drug Response

There is currently no specific drug treatment for Ellis-van Creveld syndrome.

## Related papers

- Lehouilleur et al. (2018) Ellis-van Creveld syndrome: review of the clinical, molecular, and evolutionary evidence. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 301(3):496-506. doi: 10.1002/ar.23691.
- Ruiz-Perez et al. (2007) Mutations in a new gene in Ellis-van Creveld syndrome and Weyers acrodental dysostosis. Nat Genet. 38(2):140-147. doi: 10.1038/ng1711.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**