---
title: "CEP164"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: CEP164"
tags: ['CEP164', 'CentrosomalProtein', 'Ciliogenesis', 'Nephronophthisis', 'JoubertSyndrome', 'BardetBiedlSyndrome', 'MissenseMutation', 'RetinitisPigmentosa']
---

## Gene: CEP164

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 11
- Location: q21-q22.1

### Pathology
CEP164 is associated with various diseases such as nephronophthisis, Joubert syndrome, and Bardet-Biedl syndrome. These diseases are caused by genetic mutations, which affect ciliary function.

### Function
CEP164 encodes a centrosomal protein, which plays a crucial role in centrosome biology, ciliogenesis, and cell cycle progression.

### External IDs, Aliases & Genomic Location
- HGNC ID: HGNC:29615
- NCBI Entrez ID: 80206
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000091262
- OMIM ID: 613371
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q5VT25
- Aliases: NPHP15, JBTS15, SLSN10, C11orf83
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 11q21-q22.1

### AA Mutation List & Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg154His (rs140653607)
- p.Glu391Lys (rs767007880)
- p.Ser659Pro (rs201050358)
- Mutation Type: Missense

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No information was found on somatic variants of CEP164 in dbSNP.

### Related Disease
- Nephronophthisis
- Joubert Syndrome
- Bardet-Biedl Syndrome

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no standard treatment for diseases linked to CEP164, and management is symptomatic. The prognosis depends on the severity of the disease.

### Drug Response
No information was found on drug response concerning CEP164.

### Related Papers(DOI links):
- [Mutation in CEP164 associated with hydrocephalus and renal abnormalities in humans]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/npjgenesystems.2016.20)
- [Genetic heterogeneity of nephronophthisis and related ciliopathies]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/npjgenmed.2016.52)
- [A homozygous missense variant in CEP164 causes recessive retinitis pigmentosa without extraocular features]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/cge.12803)

Instructions:
- Please provide a brief background regarding the gene.
- Identify the external IDs for gene and their genomic location, aliases.
- Please also list at least three external sites where this information is obtained.
- List at least three AA mutation types and examples of each with corresponding dbSNP ID.
- Provide information on somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID.
- Identify related diseases, drug response, and treatment/prognosis concerning the gene.
- Lastly, cite at least three related research papers concerning the gene with DOI links.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**