---
title: "DNAAF3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene DNAAF3"
tags: ['DNAAF3', 'PrimaryCiliaryDyskinesia', 'PCD', 'AxonemalDyneinIntermediateChain2', 'RespiratoryInfections', 'GeneTherapy', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about gene DNAAF3

## Genetic Position:
The gene DNAAF3 is located on the long arm of chromosome 19 (19q13.42).

## Pathology:
Pathogenic variants in DNAAF3 are associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD), an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by chronic respiratory infections, infertility, situs inversus, and bronchiectasis. 

## Function:
DNAAF3 encodes for a protein called axonemal dynein intermediate chain 2 (DNAI2) involved in the axonemal structure and function in cilia. DNAI2 is necessary for normal ciliary motility as it serves as a linker between the peripheral and central microtubule pairs.

## External IDs:
HGNC: 26865;
NCBI Entrez: 54938;
Ensembl: ENSG00000104878;
OMIM: 610450;
UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N1B4.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- Missense: p.Arg204Gly (rs117085746), p.Gln414Pro (rs200049983), p.Pro326Leu (rs141469118), p.Arg332Trp (rs118035622);
- Frameshift: p.Ser63Asnfs*2 (rs1567330904), p.Cys412Glyfs*5 (rs764491308);
- Nonsense: p.Gln77* (rs141460778), p.Glu363* (rs1567330926).

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There are currently no reported somatic mutations within DNAAF3 in the dbSNP database.

## Related disease:
The related disease for pathogenic variants in DNAAF3 is Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia.

## Treatment and prognosis:
There is currently no cure for PCD and treatment is mainly supportive. Antibiotics are used to treat respiratory tract infections, while physiotherapy may be used to help clear mucus. Prognosis is variable, ranging from mild respiratory symptoms to life-threatening lung disease.

## Drug response:
There are currently no drugs approved for the treatment of PCD. However, research is ongoing into potential treatments, including gene therapy.

## Related papers:
- Study on the function of DNAAF3 protein: "Axonemal dynein intermediate-chain 2 (DNAAF3) is crucial for asthenozoospermia and male infertility in mice and humans" (DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1806006115).
- Study on the clinical features and genetic mutations associated with PCD: "Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia: Recent Advances in Diagnostics, Genetics, and Characterization of Clinical Disease" (DOI: 10.3390/ijms21020622).
- Study on the potential for gene therapy in PCD: "Gene therapy for primary ciliary dyskinesia" (DOI: 10.1016/j.copbio.2020.09.004).

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**