---
title: "ALG8"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene ALG8"
tags: ['ALG8', 'CongenitalDisorderOfGlycosylation', 'NLinkedGlycosylation', 'CDGIh', 'SupportiveCare', 'Prognosis', 'NoCure', 'RareDisease']
---

# Information about Gene ALG8

## Genetic Position and Pathology
- **Gene Name:** ALG8
- **Chromosome Location:** 11q14.1
- **Pathology:** ALG8 is associated with Congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ih (CDG-Ih), a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by various neurological symptoms including seizures, developmental delay, and cerebral atrophy. 

## Function
- ALG8 encodes for an alpha-1,3-glucosyltransferase that is involved in the formation of a core oligosaccharide precursor required for N-linked glycosylation. 

## Gene ID and Genomic Location
- **Gene ID:** 79064
- **Aliases:** CDG1I, D11S3756E, KIAA1104, MGC125977
- **HGNC:** HGNC:25284
- **NCBI Entrez:** 79064
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000165885
- **OMIM:** 608104
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q9H214

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No disease-related amino acid mutations or SNPs have been reported for the ALG8 gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic mutations have been reported for the ALG8 gene.

## Related Disease
- ALG8 is associated with Congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ih (CDG-Ih).

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is currently no cure for CDG-Ih. Treatment is focused on managing the symptoms and providing supportive care. The prognosis for individuals with CDG-Ih varies depending on the severity of their symptoms.

## Drug Response
- No data on drug response related to ALG8 currently exists.

### Related Papers
- Wolfe, L. A., Hebert, D. N. (2019). Congenital Disorders of Glycosylation and the Pursuit of Therapy. Translational Science of Rare Diseases, 4(1-2), 35-66. DOI: 10.3233/TRD-180040 
- Freeze, H. H. (2014). Congenital disorders of glycosylation. Handb Clin Neurol, 119, 305-17. DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-7020-4086-3.00020-9

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**