---
title: "SMN2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SMN2"
tags: ['SMN2', 'SpinalMuscularAtrophy', 'RNAProcessing', 'SNRNPs', 'Nusinersen', 'Treatment', 'FrameshiftMutation', 'MissenseMutation']
---

# Gene SMN2

## Genetic Position and Pathology
- **Gene location**:  Chr5:70,662,693-70,914,720 (GRCh38/hg38)
- **Disorder**: Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA)
- **Inheritance**: Autosomal recessive

## Function
SMN2 encodes Survival of motor neuron (SMN) protein which is involved in RNA processing, likely by facilitating the assembly of small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs). These snRNPs are essential for pre-mRNA splicing. Loss of SMN function results in the motor neuron degeneration seen in SMA.

## External IDs and Aliases
- **HGNC ID**: 11187
- **NCBI Entrez ID**: 6607
- **Ensembl ID**: ENSG00000166481
- **OMIM ID**: 601627
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID**: Q16637
- **Aliases**: SMA2, SMALED2

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Gly279SerfsTer42 - Frameshift mutation - rs41296620
- p.Ser262Leu - Missense mutation - rs267606590
- p.Glu134Ter - Nonsense mutation - rs121908708

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Unfortunately, there is no known information about somatic SNVs/InDels for the gene SMN2

## Related Disease
- Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA)

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for SMA, however, there are specific treatments that can help manage symptoms and slow the progression of the disease. The efficacy of treatment varies depending on the stage of the disease at which treatment commences.

## Drug Response
- Spinraza (nusinersen) is an FDA-approved drug for SMA treatment. It increases SMN protein production by modifying the splicing pattern of SMN2 mRNA to increase the inclusion of exon 7, which then produces a functional SMN protein.

## References
- *Wirth B*. An update of current therapeutic approaches in spinal muscular atrophy. *Expert opinion on orphan drugs*. 2018;6(2):51-63. doi:10.1080/21678707.2018.1425953
- *Darras BT, Chiriboga CA, Iannaccone ST, et al*. Nusinersen in later-onset spinal muscular atrophy: Long-term results from the phase 1/2 studies. *Neurology*. 2019 Nov 12;93(20):e1907-e1916. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000008447.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**