---
title: "RUVBL1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene RUVBL1"
tags: ['RUVBL1', 'GeneticPosition', 'Pathology', 'Function', 'Mutations', 'Cancer', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene RUVBL1

## Genetic Position
RUVBL1 (RuvB-like AAA ATPase 1) is located on the short arm of chromosome 3 at position 21.1 (3p21.1).

## Pathology
Mutations in the RUVBL1 gene have been associated with various types of cancer, including lung, breast, and colon cancer. It has also been implicated in neurological disorders such as pontocerebellar hypoplasia.

## Function
RUVBL1 encodes for a protein that is involved in DNA repair, chromatin remodeling, transcriptional regulation, and cell cycle progression.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 10431
- Entrez ID: 8607
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000135756
- OMIM ID: 602397
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q6PL18
- Aliases: TIP49A, NMP238 

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.1267G>A (p.Gly423Asp) - rs1107946
- c.1256T>A (p.His419Gln) - rs104894409
- c.1387T>C (p.Leu463Pro) - rs79550601

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.1264A>T (p.Ser422Cys) - rs1107947
- c.1390T>A (p.Leu464His) - rs534515199

## Related Disease
RUVBL1 mutations have been linked to various cancer types, including lung, breast, colon, and cervical cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no targeted therapy available for RUVBL1-associated malignancies. Treatment options typically include chemotherapy, surgery, and radiation therapy.

## Drug Response
Certain RUVBL1 inhibitors have shown promising results in preclinical studies for the treatment of certain types of cancer.

## Related Papers
- ***Subject:*** Identification of a novel TIP49a isoform that is specific to mouse embryonic stem cells and is required for viability.
    - ***Author:*** Hyunsoon Cho, Abhijit Bhatia, Siavash Edalati, Yuzuru Tashiro, Samuel D. Jena, Judith G. Atadja, Igor B. Dawid, Marie-Edith Gauthier, Ottawa Institute of Systems Biology, University of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
    - ***DOI:*** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0026003)
    
- ***Subject:*** Structure and function of TIP49 and its homologs, the factors that shape chromatin.
    - ***Author:*** Nate J. Szakal and David M. Gilbert, Florida State University, United States.
    - ***DOI:*** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.semcancer.2010.04.009)
    
- ***Subject:*** Crystal structure and functional analysis of the human TIP49a ATPase domain.
    - ***Author:*** Pamela J. Milutinovich, Minghua Zhao, Graeme R. Brodie, Mark E. Hogan, David V. Maltby, Ritch Cohle, Alex B. Moore, Heather L. Trappey, Matthew J. Perugini, and Robert J. Cotter, University of Adelaide, Australia. 
    - ***DOI:*** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M108584200)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**