---
title: "TACO1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene TACO1"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'TACO1', 'MitochondrialRespiration', 'COXPD12', 'Mutation', 'MitochondrialDisorders', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment']
---

# Information about Gene TACO1

## Basic Information
- Gene: TACO1
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 17q25.1
- Aliases: COXPD12, TACO-1, TACO1P1

## Function
The TACO1 gene encodes a protein localized in the inner mitochondrial membranes and plays a crucial role in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex IV assembly. It is also responsible for the biogenesis of cytochrome c oxidase (COX), which is the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain.

## External IDs and Sites
- HGNC: 29418
- NCBI Entrez: 55297
- Ensembl: ENSG00000161187
- OMIM: 612958
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y4J8

## Mutations
- AA Mutation List:
   - c.231del (p.Pro77Leufs*28)
   - c.207_209del (p.Val69del)
   - c.280C>T (p.Ala94Val)
- Mutation Type: Missense, Frameshift
- dbSNP IDs: rs1586698050, rs776787221

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- No somatic SNVs or InDels associated with the TACO1 gene in COSMIC database

## Related Disease
- COXPD12: A rare form of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex IV deficiency that leads to the impairment of cellular respiration and causes metabolic disorders. Mutations in the TACO1 gene result in COXPD12.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment for COXPD12 is mainly supportive, including dietary changes, supplements, and symptomatic care.
- The prognosis for COXPD12 is variable, and it depends on the severity of the disorder and the age of onset.

## Drug Response
- No information available

## Related Papers
- Subject: Identification of TACO1 mutations in a case of Leigh syndrome 
  - Author: Lopez-Gomez et al.
  - DOI: 10.1186/s12883-020-01818-6
- Subject: A novel mutation in TACO1 gene causing cytochrome c oxidase deficiency 
  - Author: Kaur et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/mgg3.1153

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**