---
title: "CCL4L1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['CCL4L1', 'Chemokine', 'InflammatoryDiseases', 'GeneticVariations', 'DrugResponse', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'SomaticMutations', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene Information
**Gene Name:** CCL4L1  
**Genomic Location:** Chromosome 17q12  
**Aliases:** SCYA4, LAG1, MIP-1-beta, ACT2, AT744.1  

## Function
CCL4L1 gene encodes a chemokine that belongs to the beta chemokine family. This protein plays a key role in immune and inflammatory responses, such as the recruitment and activation of various immune cells. 

## External IDs 
1. **HGNC ID:** 10624
2. **NCBI Entrez Gene ID:** 6351
3. **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000206418
4. **OMIM ID:** 182283
5. **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** P13236 

## AA Mutation and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
According to the dbSNP database, CCL4L1 gene has several mutations. These include:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|:------------:|:-------------:|:----------:|
| L14X| Nonsense | rs1800705 |
| Q22X| Nonsense | rs4796190 |
| *S34L*| *Missense* | *rs4149117* |
| A45T | Missense | rs11188583|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
CCL4L1 has several Single Nucleotide Variations (SNVs) and Insertions/Deletions (InDels) that occur at a somatic level. According to COSMIC (Catalogue of Somatic Mutations in Cancer), some of the somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID are:

*No data was found for CCL4L1 gene in the COSMIC database.*

## Related Disease 
Studies have found that CCL4L1 gene is associated with various inflammatory and autoimmune diseases such as Rheumatoid Arthritis, Asthma, and Inflammatory Bowel Disease. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment available for CCL4L1 gene-related diseases. However, in some cases, medical treatment and/or lifestyle changes may help manage the symptoms. The prognosis of these diseases depends on various factors such as age of onset, severity of symptoms, and response to treatment.

## Drug Response
Studies have shown that some drugs such as glucocorticoids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have potential therapeutic effects for CCL4L1-gene related diseases.

## References
1. Yasuda K, Takeuchi T (2018). "CCL4L1 and CCL4L2 genetic variations in host immunity and HIV/AIDS". Inflammation and Regeneration. 38 (1): 13. doi:10.1186/s41232-018-0078-6.
2. NCBI CCL4L1 Gene Page: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/6351)
3. UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot P13236: [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/P13236)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**