---
title: "SLC6A6"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: SLC6A6"
tags: ['SLC6A6', 'CreatineTransporter', 'GAMT', 'CTD', 'IntellectualDisability', 'CreatineSupplementation', 'AntiepilepticDrugs', 'SymptomaticTreatment']
---

## Gene: SLC6A6

- **Function:** SLC6A6 gene encodes a protein named Sodium- and Chloride-Dependent Creatine Transporter 1 (CT1 or SLC6A6), which is responsible for the uptake of creatine into muscle and brain cells. Creatine is an important source of energy for these cells.

- **External IDs:**
    - Gene ID: 6535
    - Genomic location: Chr3:119052190-119119491
    - Aliases: CT1, CreaT, CreaT1, CRTR-1

- **External sites:**
    - HGNC: 10929
    - NCBI Entrez: 6535
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000114460
    - OMIM: 601025
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P48051

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    - c.1132G>A (p.Arg378His) - rs3747813
    - c.584G>A (p.Arg195His) - rs2229679
    - c.1570G>A (p.Arg524His) - rs2239782

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported in this gene.

- **Related disease:** Mutations in SLC6A6 have been linked to two rare genetic disorders - Guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency (GAMT) and Creatine Transporter Deficiency (CTD). Both these disorders are characterized by a decreased creatine concentration in the brain leading to intellectual disability, seizures, and speech and language delay.

- **Treatment and prognosis:** There is no cure for GAMT and CTD, and treatment is mostly symptomatic, involving antiepileptic drugs and speech and occupational therapy. Oral supplementation of creatine has also been shown to improve the clinical outcome in some patients.

- **Drug response:** Some reports have suggested that patients with CTD may benefit from treatment with creatine supplements. However, responses to creatine therapy vary widely among patients. 

- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:** 
    - Bianchi, M.C., Tosetti, M., Battini, R., Leuzzi, V., Alessandri, M.G., Carducci, C., Antonozzi, I. (2001). Treatment monitoring of brain creatine deficiency syndromes: a 1H- and 31P-magnetic resonance spectroscopy study. Neuropediatrics, 32(5), 229-234. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-18511
    - Salomons, G.S., van Dooren, S.J., Verhoeven, N.M., Marsden, D., Schwartz, C., Cecil, K.M., DeGrauw, T.J. (2003). X-linked creatine transporter defect: an overview. Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease, 26(2-3), 309-318. doi: 10.1023/a:1024423003082

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**