---
title: "TSPO"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene TSPO"
tags: ['TSPO', 'PeripheralBenzodiazepineReceptor', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorders', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Therapeutics', 'CholesterolTransport', 'CalciumHomeostasis']
---

# Gene TSPO

## Information

- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 22:20,302,389-20,302,571
- **Aliases:** Peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (PBR), Translocator protein (18kDa) (TSPO)
- **Function:** The TSPO gene encodes the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor, which is found in the outer mitochondrial membrane. It plays a role in cholesterol transport, calcium homeostasis, and steroidogenesis.
- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 12362
    - NCBI Entrez Gene: 7060
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000128272
    - OMIM: 603779
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P30536
    
## Mutations

- **AA Mutation List:** A list of all the TSPO mutations can be found on the following link: [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/P30536#mutations)
- **Mutation Type:** Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs)
- **dbSNP ID of Mutations:** rs1057237, rs1057236, rs1145647

## Related Disease

- The TSPO gene has been associated with various diseases including anxiety, depression, and neurodegenerative disorders.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- The treatment and prognosis for TSPO-related diseases depend on the specific disease and its severity. However, TSPO ligands are being studied as potential therapeutics for neurodegenerative disorders.

## Drug Response

- TSPO-ligands are being studied as potential therapeutics for neurodegenerative disorders. The response to these drugs may vary depending on the TSPO gene expression and the specific disease.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Peripheral benzodiazepine receptors in the CNS: on being targeted by molecular imaging probes and therapeutic ligands.
  - Author: Papadopoulos V, Baraldi M, Guilarte TR, Knudsen TB, Lacapère JJ, Lindemann P, Norenberg MD, Nutt D, Weizman A, Zhang MR, Gavish M.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.tips.2006.11.005
  
- Subject: Central benzodiazepine receptor imaging with PET and SPECT.
  - Author: Herth MM, Kneifel S, Schmitt U, Nikolaus S, Höll K, Wienhard K, Heiss WD.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s00415-005-0781-4

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**