---
title: "PDGFRB"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PDGFRB"
tags: ['PDGFRB', 'ReceptorTyrosineKinase', 'Cancer', 'TyrosineKinaseInhibitors', 'GastrointestinalStromalTumor', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene PDGFRB

## Genetic Position
The gene PDGFRB is located on chromosome 5 at the position 32.1. It spans around 951,400 base pairs.

## Pathology and Function
PDGFRB gene encodes for a protein that belongs to the family of receptor tyrosine kinases. This protein plays a crucial role in cell proliferation, differentiation, and migration. The activation of the protein happens when it binds with various ligands like platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). Mutations in the PDGFRB gene have been associated with various types of cancer and other diseases.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 8803
- NCBI Entrez: 5159
- Ensembl: ENSG00000113721
- OMIM: 173410
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P09619

Aliases: IBGC4, JTK12

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- D849N (missense mutation) - rs2228230
- D1068V (missense mutation) - rs28933384
- N666K (missense mutation) - rs1801123

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.2956C>T (missense mutation) - rs555197025
- c.2466dupA (frameshift mutation) - rs1060505549

## Related Disease
The PDGFRB gene mutations have been associated with various diseases and conditions, including leukemia, gastrointestinal stromal tumor, and idiopathic basal ganglia calcification.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment for diseases related to PDGFRB gene mutations generally involves the use of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) targeting PDGFRB. The prognosis varies depending on the specific disease and the stage at which it is diagnosed.

## Drug Response
Patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors with PDGFRB mutations have shown positive response to TKIs like Imatinib, Dasatinib, and Sunitinib.

## Related Papers
- Subject: A PDGFRB Mutation Associated with a Pediatric Glioblastoma Variant in Ependymoma
  - Author: Nicola J. Royle
  - DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/brain/awr204) 
- Subject: Dovitinib (TKI258): a novel multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor against FGFR and VEGFR in renal cell carcinoma
  - Author: Sook-Kim Lee, et al.
  - DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.18632/oncotarget.4050)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**