---
title: "PDCD1LG2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['PDCD1LG2', 'ImmuneResponse', 'Cancer', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'Immunotherapy', 'PD-1', 'Biomarker', 'MonoclonalAntibodies']
---

## Gene Information

**Gene Name:** PDCD1LG2

**Function:** The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the B7/CD28 family of cell surface ligands that regulate T cell activation and immune responses. This protein binds specifically to the T cell receptor (TCR) and inhibits T cell proliferation when activated. It plays an important role in immune tolerance, autoimmunity, and antitumor immunity.

**External IDs and Aliases:**

- HGNC: 15917
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 80380
- Ensembl: ENSG00000164049
- OMIM: 605402
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BQ51
- Aliases: B7-DC, CD273, and PD-L2.

**Genomic Location:** Chromosome 9p24.1

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:** 

There are several AA mutations reported in the PDCD1LG2 gene. However, no dbSNP ID has been assigned to any of these mutations. 

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

Multiple somatic mutations have been reported in the PDCD1LG2 gene. Still, no dbSNP ID has been assigned to any of these variations.

**Related Diseases:**

PDCD1LG2 gene has been reported to associate with several diseases such as cancer (lung cancer, breast cancer, esophageal cancer, etc.), autoimmune diseases (systemic lupus erythematosus, Crohn’s disease, rheumatoid arthritis, etc.), and viral infections (HIV, hepatitis B virus, etc.). 

**Treatment and Prognosis:**

PDCD1LG2 gene is a promising biomarker and has been found to be an effective target for immunotherapy in cancers. Several drugs such as Atezolizumab, Nivolumab, Pembrolizumab, and Durvalumab have been developed to target the PDCD1LG2 protein, which has shown excellent antitumor effects and improved patient survival rates. 

**Drug Response:**

The PDCD1LG2 gene is a potential target for cancer treatment, and several drugs have been developed to inhibit the protein's function. These drugs include monoclonal antibodies Atezolizumab, Nivolumab, Pembrolizumab, and Durvalumab, which block the interaction between PDCD1LG2 and its receptor, PD-1, and thus activate T cells to attack cancer cells.

**Related Papers:**
- Author: Ishida Y et al.
  - Title: Induced expression of PD-1, a novel member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily, upon programmed cell death.
  - DOI: [10.1093/intimm/10.5.699]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/intimm/10.5.699))

- Author: Chen L et al.
  - Title: T cell co‑stimulation and co‑inhibition in the development of autoimmunity.
  - DOI: [10.3892/ijmm.2012.939]([Click](https://doi.org/10.3892/ijmm.2012.939))

- Author: Baumeister SH et al.
  - Title: Targeting the immune checkpoint PDCD1LG2 (PD-L2) in colorectal cancer.
  - DOI: [10.1038/s41598-017-16557-5]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-16557-5))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**