---
title: "WFDC1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: WFDC1"
tags: ['WFDC1', 'ProteaseInhibitor', 'Immunomodulatory', 'MesotheliomaMarker', 'Chromosome16', 'WAPFourDisulfideCoreDomainProtein', 'NoKnownPathology', 'NoKnownDrugResponse']
---

# Gene: WFDC1

## Genetic Position
WFDC1 is located on chromosome 16q24.3.

## Pathology
There is no known pathological involvement of the WFDC1 gene.

## Function for Gene
The WFDC1 gene encodes for a protein called WAP four-disulfide core domain protein 1. The protein is expressed in various tissues, including the testis, ovary, and prostate. It has been shown to inhibit the activity of various proteases, suggesting a possible role in the regulation of proteolytic activity.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 12739
- NCBI Entrez ID: 10455
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000166468
- OMIM ID: 605724
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: O14543
- Aliases: WAP1, WAP3

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
No known amino acid mutations have been reported for WFDC1.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No known somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for WFDC1.

## Related Disease
No diseases have been directly associated with mutations or dysregulation of the WFDC1 gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
As no known diseases are associated with WFDC1 at this time, there are no known treatments or prognoses related to this gene.

## Drug Response
There is no known drug response associated with WFDC1 at this time.

## Related Papers
- Author: Alper M, et al.
  - Title: "WFDC1/ps20 is a novel innate immunomodulatory signature protein of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-permissive CD4+CD45RO+ memory T cells that promotes infection by upregulating CD54 integrin expression and is elevated in HIV type 1 infection."
  - DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02352-12

- Author: Wang J, et al.
  - Title: "Identification of WFDC1 as a novel marker for mesothelioma."
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2017.08.031

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**