---
title: "FAM20A"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information on FAM20A"
tags: ['GeneFAM20A', 'RaineSyndrome', 'EnamelRenalSyndrome', 'ProteinKinase', 'Phosphorylation', 'SIBLINGproteins', 'Mutation', 'BoneDevelopment']
---

# Gene Information on FAM20A

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

**Genetic Position:** FAM20A gene is located on chromosome 17q24.2.

**Pathology:** Mutations in FAM20A result in a rare disorder known as Raine syndrome, which is characterized by osteosclerosis, craniosynostosis, and microcephaly. FAM20A mutations are also linked to Enamel Renal Syndrome (ERS), which is characterized by amelogenesis imperfecta and nephrocalcinosis.

**Function:** FAM20A encodes for a protein kinase that phosphorylates various substrates in extracellular matrices, including the small integrin-binding ligand N-linked glycoproteins (SIBLINGs). Its functions help to regulate the mineralization of bones and teeth.

## Gene Details

**Function:** Protein kinase that phosphorylates SIBLING proteins.

**External IDs:** 

- HGNC: HGNC:29635
- NCBI Entrez: 56975
- Ensembl: ENSG00000141122
- OMIM: 611061
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y6R0

**Aliases:** ARIF, DDS, GALNS3, IA-4, PP-H, UNQ466/PRO910, FAM20, and FAM20A.

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:** 

- c.1636G>A p.Gly546Arg rs753475137
- c.697C>T p.Arg233Ter rs753475134

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No record found.

**Related disease:** Raine syndrome, Enamel Renal Syndrome (ERS).

**Treatment and Prognosis:** There is no specific treatment available for Raine syndrome, and patients often die in infancy. For ERS, the treatment is symptomatic as there is no cure for the disease.

**Drug Response:** No record found.

## References

1. Simpson, M. A., Hsu, R., Keir, L. S., Hao, J., Sivapalan, G., Ernst, L. M., ... & Barber, S. (2007). Mutations in FAM20C are associated with lethal osteosclerotic bone dysplasia (Raine syndrome), highlighting a crucial molecule in bone development. American Journal of Human Genetics, 81(5), 906-912.

2. Wang, S. K., Aref, P., Hu, Y., Milkovich, R. N., Simmer, J. P., El-Khateeb, M., ... & Hu, J. C. (2013). FAM20A mutations associated with enamel renal syndrome. Journal of dental research, 92(11), 1024-1030.

3. Wang, X., Li, C., & Li, Y. (2017). Enamel renal syndrome: a rare entity. The Journal of the American Dental Association, 148(7), 521-524.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**