---
title: "ATM"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ATM"
tags: ['ATMgene', 'DNArepair', 'cancer', 'AtaxiaTelangiectasia', 'PARPinhibitors', 'chemotherapy', 'genomicintegrity', 'targetedtherapy']
---

# Gene ATM

## Genetic Position 
The gene ATM is located on the long arm of chromosome 11 at the position 11q22.3.

## Pathology
Mutations in the ATM gene are associated with the development of certain cancers, including breast, pancreatic, and prostate cancer. Additionally, mutations in this gene can also lead to an increased risk of developing the rare genetic disorder Ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T), which is characterized by neurological dysfunction, immunodeficiency, and an increased risk of cancer.

## Function
The ATM gene encodes for a protein called ATM kinase, which plays a crucial role in the maintenance of genomic integrity and DNA damage response. Specifically, ATM kinase is activated by DNA damage and is responsible for initiating DNA repair pathways, as well as inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in response to severe DNA damage.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 795
- NCBI Entrez: 472
- Ensembl: ENSG00000149311
- OMIM: 607585
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13315

Aliases: AT1, ATA, ATC, ATE, TEL1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Glu1978Ter (rs121434568)
- p.Ser707Pro (rs199473117)
- p.Ser707Arg (rs199473117)

Mutation Type: Missense, Nonsense

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs730882127
- rs1167075615

## Related Disease
- Ataxia Telangiectasia
- Breast Cancer
- Prostate Cancer
- Pancreatic Cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for Ataxia Telangiectasia, but symptoms can be managed through various treatments such as physical therapy, antibiotics for infections, and immunoglobulin replacement therapy.

The prognosis for cancer patients with ATM mutations varies depending on the type and stage of cancer, as well as the specific mutation involved. Some studies have suggested that patients with ATM mutations may have a poorer prognosis and be less responsive to certain chemotherapy treatments.

## Drug Response
Some studies have suggested that ATM-deficient cancer cells may be more sensitive to certain targeted therapies, such as PARP inhibitors or ATR inhibitors, than cells with normal ATM function.

## Related Papers
- Author: Lavin MF, doi: 10.1074/jbc.R300039200
- Author: Bouaoun L, et al. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djv094

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**