---
title: "UQCRFS1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene UQCRFS1"
tags: ['UQCRFS1', 'MitochondrialRespiratoryChainDeficiency', 'ComplexIIIDeficiency', 'ElectronTransportChain', 'OxidativePhosphorylation', 'MitochondrialEncephalomyopathy', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'BeneficialCompounds']
---

# Information on Gene UQCRFS1

## Genetic Position
Gene UQCRFS1 is located on human chromosome 19 at locus p13.2. It spans a genomic region of about 7.4 kilobases and consists of four exons. 

## Pathology
Mutations in the UQCRFS1 gene have been associated with mitochondrial respiratory chain deficiency. Specifically, mutations in this gene are known to cause complex III deficiency, which is a rare genetic disorder characterized by a defect in the electron transport chain that leads to impaired cellular respiration and energy production.

## Function
UQCRFS1 encodes a protein subunit that is a component of complex III, also known as the cytochrome bc1 complex. Complex III is a crucial component of the electron transport chain in mitochondria and plays a key role in oxidative phosphorylation.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 12620
- NCBI Entrez: 7384
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105683
- OMIM: 191330
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P47985

## AA Mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
* rs779312612, c.115C>T, p.R39* (nonsense mutation)
* rs267607121, c.334C>T, p.R112* (nonsense mutation)
* rs267607120, c.845G>A, p.W282* (nonsense mutation)
* rs267607119, c.146C>G, p.S49C (missense mutation)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No record available.

## Related Disease
Mutations in UQCRFS1 can cause mitochondrial complex III deficiency which is characterized by clinical variability, ranging from isolated myopathy to severe multisystem disorders involving several tissues and organs. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no known cure for mitochondrial complex III deficiency caused by mutations in the UQCRFS1 gene. Treatment is largely supportive and aimed at managing symptoms.

## Drug response
No specific drug therapies are available but several compounds such as vitamin C, alpha-tocopherol, and co-enzyme Q10 have been reported to have beneficial effects in some patients.

## Related Papers
* Subject: Identification of a patient with cytochrome c oxidase deficiency due to a novel frameshift mutation UQCRFS1 gene.
  * Author: Wang Q, Zhang X, Huang Z, Wang X, Su L, Zhou M, Liu C
  * DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.genom.2020.03.010)
* Subject: A patient with infantile mitochondrial encephalomyopathy due to recessive UQCRFS1 variants.
  * Author: Almutairi MM, Jelani M, Alazami AM, Alkuraya FS
  * DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-77249-4)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**