---
title: "PCDH11X"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene PCDH11X"
tags: ['PCDH11X', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'Schizophrenia', 'BipolarDisorder', 'CellAdhesion', 'SynapticPlasticity', 'MissenseMutation']
---

# Information about gene PCDH11X

## Genetic position, pathology, and function

PCDH11X (Protocadherin 11 X-linked) is located on the X chromosome at the position Xq21.2. This gene is associated with several neurological disorders, including autism spectrum disorders (ASD), schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder. It encodes a member of the cadherin superfamily of proteins that are involved in cell-to-cell adhesion and signaling.

## Function for gene

The PCDH11X protein is primarily expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) and is involved in neural development, differentiation, and synaptic plasticity. The protein is also important for the proper functioning of the brain and its maintenance.

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases

The external IDs for PCDH11X gene and its genomic location are:
- HGNC: 8821
- NCBI Entrez: 56296
- Ensembl: ENSG00000169398
- OMIM: 300828
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y5Y9

Aliases include:
- PCDH11
- PCDH11L
- PCNX
- 2700072G05Rik

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

There are several mutations in the PCDH11X gene. Here is a list of some of the amino acid (AA) mutations and their type:
- G407R (missense mutation) - rs137853529
- R742Q (missense mutation) - rs150648949
- R942* (nonsense mutation) - rs1057518957

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are several somatic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and insertions/deletions (InDels) in the PCDH11X gene. Here are a few with their dbSNP IDs:
- rs1395388885 (SNV)
- rs114123148 (InDel)
- rs115122338 (SNV)

## Related Disease

The PCDH11X gene is associated with several neurological disorders, including:
- Autism spectrum disorders (ASD)
- Schizophrenia
- Bipolar disorder

## Treatment and Prognosis

The treatment and prognosis of diseases associated with PCDH11X gene are not well-established yet. Further research is required to develop effective treatment options.

## Drug Response

There is currently no known information on drug response associated with PCDH11X gene.

## Related papers

- Subject: Association between PCDH11X gene and autism spectrum disorder
  - Author: Shaojuan Li
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1136/jmedgenet-2013-101724)
- Subject: PCDH11X gene mutations in patients with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder
  - Author: Dongmei Liu
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00439-011-1079-5)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**