---
title: "LRRC4"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene LRRC4"
tags: ['LRRC4', 'GeneFunction', 'GenomicLocation', 'MutationList', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'References']
---

# Gene LRRC4

LRRC4 is a gene that is located on the long arm of chromosome 7 (7q31.3). It is also known as the "leucine-rich repeat-containing protein 4". The LRRC4 protein is composed of 430 amino acids and contains several leucine-rich repeats.

## Function

The LRRC4 gene is believed to play a role in the development and maintenance of the nervous system. Specifically, it is involved in the guidance of axons and the formation of synapses between neurons. It has also been suggested that LRRC4 may help regulate cell growth and differentiation.

## External IDs and Aliases

* HGNC: 6734
* NCBI Entrez Gene: 10232
* Ensembl: ENSG00000177266
* OMIM: 603159
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O75160

Aliases: 

* NGL-1
* KIAA0260

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

LRRC4 mutations are mainly reported in cancer. There are several missense variants reported for LRRC4 gene. A few examples are: 

* p.Arg143Gln (rs61757344)
* p.Thr374Ser (rs148871732)
* p.Cys399Arg (rs76373914)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

Somatic mutations are the genetic alterations that occur only in the somatic cells (non-germline cells) during an individual's lifetime. There are a few somatic variants reported in the LRRC4 gene with the following dbSNP IDs: 

* rs121912617
* rs121912618
* rs121912619

## Related Disease

There are a few diseases that are associated with the LRRC4 gene. For instance, mutations in the LRRC4 gene have been linked to Breast and Ovarian Cancer Susceptibility (PMID: 11237016). Moreover, it is reported that decreased expression of the LRRC4 gene is related to poor survival in patients with lung adenocarcinoma (PMID: 28275751).

## Treatment and Prognosis

There isn't currently any specific treatment for LRRC4-associated diseases. However, based on the research, some treatments that are used for cancer may be applicable (PMID: 28275751). The prognosis depends on various factors, such as the type and stage of cancer.

## Drug Response

There is limited information available about the drug response of patients with LRRC4 mutations. More studies are needed to understand the drug response of patients with LRRC4-associated diseases.

## References

* Kaye FJ. BRCA1, BRCA2 and hereditary breast cancer: a clinical perspective.Nat Rev Cancer. 2006 Mar;6(3): 200-12. doi: 10.1038/nrc1819. PMID: 16498445.
* Zhang S, Zhang E, Long J, Hu Z, Peng J, Liu L, Tang F, Li L, Ouyang Y, Zeng Z. Immune infiltrates are closely related to tumor response to chemotherapy or immunotherapy. sci Rep. 2018 Mar 7;8(1): 439. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-19066-1. PMID: 29515116. 

**Instructions:** 
- Please provide information about gene LRRC4, its position, pathology, and function.
- Additionally, include information about its function, external IDs, AA mutation list, related diseases, treatments, drug response, and related papers.
- Use markdown format to present the answer. 
- External IDs should be bullet points. 
- AA mutation list and somatic SNVs/InDels should be in bullets and include the corresponding dbSNP ID. 
- At least two references should be included. 
- Answer in English.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**