---
title: "FOXC2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene FOXC2"
tags: ['FOXC2', 'LymphaticDevelopment', 'LymphaticDisorders', 'LymphedemaDistichiasisSyndrome', 'Mutation', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'AdiposeTissueDevelopment', 'YellowNailSyndrome']
---

# Information about Gene FOXC2

## 1. Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 16
- Genomic Location: 16q24.1

## 2. Pathology
FOXC2 gene mutations have been associated with a variety of disorders. 
The FOXC2 gene is involved in the development of the lymphatic system and its disorder leads to abnormalities in the development of eyes, ears, and lymphatic vessels. Therefore, the mutation of FOXC2 is linked to Lymphedema- distichiasis syndrome (LDS) which is characterized by a defect in lymph vessels and doubled eyelashes.

## 3. Function for Gene
FOXC2 is a member of the forkhead family of transcription factors, which play an important role in regulating various biological processes including embryonic development, cell differentiation, and proliferation. 
In particular, FOXC2 is involved in the formation of lymphatic vessels, as well as adipose tissue development, and hair follicle morphogenesis.

## 4. External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 2303
- HGNC: 3809
- Ensembl: ENSG00000144381
- OMIM: 602402
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q99958
- Aliases: MFH-1, HFKH3, LPRS5

## 5. AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.178C>A (p.A60D) - rs143401520
- c.563C>T (p.R188C) - rs121908003 
- c.1070G>A (p.C357Y) - rs121908004 

## 6. Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several SNVs and InDels in FOXC2 gene, but there is no reported dbSNP ID in variations.

## 7. Related Disease
- Lymphedema-distichiasis syndrome
- Yellow nail syndrome
- Hereditary lymphedema type 1D
- Breast cancer

## 8. Treatment and Prognosis
There are no specific treatments or cures available for FOXC2 gene mutations. However, the treatment of lymphedema-distichiasis syndrome focuses on the management of swelling and the prevention of infection.  The prognosis of FOXC2 related disorders vary depending on the type and severity of the disease.

## 9. Drug Response 
There are no known drugs that specifically target FOXC2 mutations.

## 10. Related Papers
- Subject: FOXC2 gene and lymphatic development
  - Author: Petrova, T.
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-08-3913)
- Subject: FOXC2 mutations and lymphatic disorders 
  - Author: Gordon, K.
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/gene.20173)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**