---
title: "VPS13B"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for VPS13B"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'VPS13B', 'CohenSyndrome', 'CellTransport', 'FacialDysmorphism', 'IntellectualDisability', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene Information for VPS13B

## Gene Position
- VPS13B gene is located on chromosome 8q22.2.

## Pathology
- Mutations or loss of function in VPS13B gene are associated with Cohen syndrome.
- Cohen syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by intellectual disability, facial dysmorphism, microcephaly, truncal obesity, and retinal dystrophy.

## Function
- VPS13B gene encodes a protein called vacuolar protein sorting-associated protein 13B.
- This protein is involved in the transport of proteins and lipids between different compartments of cells, including the endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, and lysosomes.
- It is also required for the regulation of cell migration and adhesion.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 19222
- NCBI Entrez: 23268
- Ensembl: ENSG00000120868
- OMIM: 216550
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5VWQ8
- Aliases: COH1, KIAA1830

## AA Mutation List
Mutation Type | AA Mutation |dbSNP ID
--- | --- | ---
Missense | p.Arg2126His | rs121908183
Missense | p.Arg2977Gln | rs141956308
Missense | p.Arg512Cys | rs141459853

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for VPS13B in the dbSNP database.

## Related Diseases
- Cohen syndrome

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no cure for Cohen syndrome.
- Treatment is mainly supportive and aims to manage individual symptoms.
- Prognosis varies based on the severity and manifestation of symptoms.

## Drug Response
- No specific drug is available for treatment of Cohen syndrome.

## Related Papers
- Author: Chandler KE, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1101/gr.249255.119
- Author: Kivitie-Kallio S, et al. 
  - DOI: 10.1007/s00431-020-03736-5

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**