---
title: "SSX4"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SSX4"
tags: ['GeneSSX4', 'Oncogenesis', 'SomaticMutations', 'SynovialSarcoma', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'CancerTreatment', 'Research']
---

# Information about Gene SSX4

## Gene Information
- **Gene Name:** SSX4
- **Function for gene:** The exact function of this gene is unknown; however, it is a member of the SSX gene family, which is involved in the regulation of transcription and may play a role in oncogenesis.
- **External IDs and Genomic Location:**
  - HGNC: 11308
  - NCBI Entrez: 6757
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000115263
  - OMIM: 300158
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H2Z2
  - Genomic Location: Chromosome Xq28

## Genetic Pathology
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**
  - There are several known synonymous and missense mutations in SSX4, but none have significant clinical relevance. 
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
  - There are several somatic mutations listed in COSMIC database, including missense mutations and stop gained mutations. Some of the mutations with dbSNP ID numbers are rs587780240, rs1020871580, rs744465234.
- **Related Disease:**
  - SSX4 is mainly implicated in the development of various malignant tumors, including synovial sarcoma, ovarian cancer, and melanoma.
  
## Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no specific treatment for SSX4-related diseases. The treatment options depend on the type and stage of the cancer. 
- Prognosis largely depends on the type and stage of the cancer, but generally, SSX4-positive tumors are associated with a worse prognosis.

## Drug Response
- There is currently no known drug that specifically targets SSX4. However, ongoing research may lead to the discovery of novel treatment options.

## Related Papers
- Subject: "SSX4 Gene"
- Author: Mary E. Walsh, Núria Casadevall, Regiane S. Takahashi, et al.
- DOI links to related papers: 
  - [Click](https://doi.org/10.18632/oncotarget.16646)
  - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.canlet.2012.08.008) 
  - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.canlet.2007.06.026)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**