---
title: "KCNA4"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene KCNA4"
tags: ['KCNA4', 'PotassiumChannel', 'NeurologicalDisorder', 'ADCA-DN', 'CerebellarAtaxia', 'Narcolepsy', 'HearingImpairment', 'GeneticVariations']
---

# Information about Gene KCNA4

## Genetic Position 
The KCNA4 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 11 (11q23.3) genomic position: NC_000011.10 (26500527..26522033, complement).

## Pathology 
The KCNA4 gene, also known as the potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily A member 4, encodes a protein that is a voltage-gated potassium ion channel and plays a crucial role in repolarization of cardiac myocytes and neurons. Pathogenic variants in KCNA4 gene have been linked to a rare neurological disorder called Autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia, deafness, and narcolepsy (ADCA-DN) which is characterized by  progressive cerebellar ataxia, hearing impairment, and narcolepsy.

## Function 
The KCNA4 gene encodes a protein that forms a voltage-gated potassium ion channel. This potassium channel plays a critical role in repolarization of cardiac myocytes and neurons, which is essential for normal action potential generation and propagation.

## External IDs
- Gene: KCNA4
- Genomic location: NC_000011.10 (26500527..26522033, complement)
- Aliases: Kv1.4, HBK4

## External Sites
- HGNC: 6297
- NCBI Entrez: 3737
- Ensembl: ENSG00000120907
- OMIM: 176262
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P22459

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several mutations reported in the KCNA4 gene. Here we have listed some of them:
- c.763C > T (p.R255C) rs201868819
- c.148G > A (p.G50R) rs61754749
- c.718G > A (p.A240T) -

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no report of somatic SNVs/InDels in the KCNA4 gene.

## Related Disease
Pathogenic variants in KCNA4 gene have been linked to a rare neurological disorder called Autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia, deafness, and narcolepsy (ADCA-DN) which is characterized by progressive cerebellar ataxia, hearing impairment, and narcolepsy. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for ADCA-DN, however, the treatment is usually symptomatic and is based on the individual’s health condition and symptoms. The likely prognosis for individuals with this rare neurological disorder generally depends on the severity of the symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is no report available about drug response in individuals with variations in the KCNA4 gene.

## References
1. Keshavarzi S, Sullivan JM (2020) KCNA4 (potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily A member 4). Gene.
2. Luo L, et al. (2019) Clinical and genetic characteristics of Chinese hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathies caused by KCNMA1 and KCNA4 mutations. Brain Behav
3. [Click](https://www.omim.org/entry/176262?search=176262&highlight=176262)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**