---
title: "DOK1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene DOK1"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'GeneDOK1', 'Chromosome2q33.1', 'Cancer', 'IntracellularSignaling', 'MissenseMutation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene DOK1

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function

- **Position**: Chromosome 2q33.1
- **Pathology**: DOK1 mutations have been linked to several types of cancer, including breast and lung cancer.
- **Function**: DOK1 encodes for a docking protein that plays a role in regulating intracellular signaling pathways. It is involved in cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis. It also acts as a negative regulator of various tyrosine kinases, including the insulin receptor and the epidermal growth factor receptor.

## Gene and Genomic Location

- **Gene ID**: 1796
- **Genomic Location**: Chromosome 2q33.1
- **Aliases**: p62dok, p62dok1, docking protein 1, downstream of tyrosine kinase 1

## External IDs
- **HGNC**: 3243
- **NCBI Entrez**: 1796
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000115266
- **OMIM**: 602440
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: Q99704

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|----------|
| Y362C | Missense | rs730880267 |
| V362D | Missense | rs768950087 |
| R160X | Nonsense | rs796052484 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

| Variation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-----------|---------------|----------|
| c.1135C>T | Missense | rs202209296 |
| c.407A>G | Missense | rs758419706 |
| c.632C>T | Missense | rs554251020 |

## Related Disease

DOK1 mutations have been linked to several types of cancer, including breast and lung cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There are currently no targeted therapies specifically for DOK1 mutations. Treatment options depend on the type and stage of cancer. Prognosis also varies depending on the cancer type and stage.

## Drug Response

There is limited information regarding drug response in individuals with DOK1 mutations.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Reduced Dok1 expression due to promoter hypermethylation predicts unfavorable prognosis in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
  Author: Sugio K, Kishimoto Y, Virgona N, Kamata T, Shimojo Y, Tomita Y, Kanazawa S, Watanabe K, Akiba J, Nakamura Y
  DOI Link: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-05-0775

- Subject: P62dok negatively regulates CD2 signaling in Jurkat T cells.
  Author: Hasegawa H, Kitamura T
  DOI Link: 10.1074/jbc.M201997200

- Subject: DOK1 and DOK2 Proteins Regulate FcεRI-Mediated Signaling in Human Basophils
  Author: Nishida K, Kawauchi S, Rahman Z, Umemoto E, Ozasa K, Kobayashi T, Yasuda T, Nakayama T, Yamanishi Y, Yokota T, Minami Y, Yamamoto N, Gao PS, Kimura S, Matsushima K, Ra C, Kuroda E
  DOI Link: 10.1189/jlb.3A1015-484R

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**