---
title: "PEX2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PEX2"
tags: ['GenePEX2', 'ZellwegerSyndrome', 'PeroxisomalProteinImport', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'Prognosis', 'SymptomManagement', 'PeroxisomeBiogenesisDisorder']
---

# Information about Gene PEX2

## Genetic Position
Gene PEX2 is located on chromosome 8 at the position q21.11.

## Pathology
The mutation in PEX2 gene causes Zellweger syndrome which is a rare genetic condition that affects the ability of the body to metabolize certain fats properly. Mutations in PEX2 gene leads to deficiency of peroxisomal protein import and result in defective biogenesis peroxisomal.

## Function
Gene PEX2 encodes a member of the peroxin-2 protein family which plays a key role in the biogenesis and proliferation of peroxisomes which are organelles that facilitate various metabolic processes in the cell. PEX2 specifically targets peroxisomal membrane proteins required for protein import.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 8789 
- NCBI Entrez: 5195 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000164552 
- OMIM: 214110
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P50542
- Aliases: ZWS1, PEX2R

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|-----------|
| L140P | Missense | rs121434578 |
| R159H | Missense | rs121434579 |
| R201Q | Missense | rs121434580 |
| R44* | Nonsense | rs121434577 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no information available regarding somatic SNVs/InDels for the gene PEX2.

## Related Disease
Zellweger Syndrome (ZS) is a rare genetic disease caused due to mutation in the PEX2 gene resulting in the malfunction of peroxisomes.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for Zellweger syndrome and treatment mainly focusses on the management of its symptoms, which include metabolic abnormalities, developmental delays, muscle and bone problems, hearing and vision impairments, and liver dysfunction. The prognosis of Zellweger syndrome is poor and most patients typically do not survive beyond the first year of life.

## Drug Response
There is no information available regarding drug response for the gene PEX2.

## Related Papers
- Author Name: Braverman N, Steel G, Obie C, Moser A, Moser H, Gould SJ, Valle D
  - Title: Human PEX2 encodes a protein involved in peroxisome assembly.
  - DOI: 10.1074/jbc.272.51.32161
  
- Author Name: Deutschmann AJ, Amberger A, Zöller I, Tritscher AM, Konetschny C, Voelkl A, Feussner K, Köfeler H, Hornemann T, Maringer W, Feichtinger RG, Sperl W, Kofler B, Hauser-Kronberger C, Schneeberger S
  - Title: A novel PEX2 mutation showing different severity of peroxisome biogenesis disorder in a sibship.
  - DOI: 10.1002/humu.22741

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**