---
title: "NAA10"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene NAA10 "
tags: ['GeneNAA10', 'ARD1A', 'OgdenSyndrome', 'MissenseMutation', 'ProteinHomeostasis', 'IntellectualDisability', 'UbiquitinProteasomePathway', 'RareDisease']
---

# Gene NAA10 

### Function 
The gene NAA10 (N(alpha)-acetyltransferase 10) is responsible for encoding the enzyme ARD1A, which is a member of the N-terminal acetyltransferase complex. ARD1A is involved in protein homeostasis and targets substrates for degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway.

### External IDs and Genomic Location 
- HGNC: 22933
- NCBI Entrez: 8260
- Ensembl: ENSG00000113522
- OMIM: 300013
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q99497

The genomic location for gene NAA10 is on chromosome Xq28.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID 
There are several known amino acid (AA) mutations associated with the NAA10 gene. These mutations and their corresponding dbSNP IDs are:

|Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|--------|-------------|--------|
|p.Arg83Cys|Missense|rs104894667|
|p.Arg83His|Missense|rs104894666|
|p.Thr108Met|Missense|rs137853041|
|p.Thr109Met|Missense|rs1057518879|
|p.Glu138Gly|Missense|rs1057517860|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
There are currently no known somatic SNVs/InDels associated with the NAA10 gene.

### Related Disease 
Mutations in NAA10 have been linked to Ogden syndrome, a rare X-linked recessive disorder characterized by failure to thrive, intellectual disability, and distinct facial features.

### Treatment and Prognosis 
There is currently no specific treatment for Ogden syndrome, and affected individuals typically do not survive beyond the first few months of life.

### Drug Response 
There are currently no known drug responses associated with mutations in the NAA10 gene.

### Related Papers 
- Subject: Identification of a novel NAA10 p.(T109M) variant in the first Danish family with Ogden syndrome and intellectual disability.
  - Author: Vogel I, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/ajmg.a.61770)

- Subject: NAA10 dysfunction with normal NatA-complex activity in a girl with non-syndromic ID and a de novo NAA10 p.(Q81K) mutation.
  - Author: Myklebust LM, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/cge.13334)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**