---
title: "COLEC11"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "**Gene**: COLEC11"
tags: ['COLEC11', 'innateimmunity', 'collectinfamily', 'pathogens', 'diseaseassociation', 'kidneyfunction', 'liverfunction', 'biomarker']
---

**Gene**: COLEC11

**Genomic Location**: Chromosome 2: 236,307,589-236,329,191

**Aliases**: Collectin Kidney 1 (CL-K1), Collectin Liver 1 (CL-L1), Collectin Subfamily Member 11 (COLEC11), Collagenous Lectin Of Kidney 1 (CLK1), Collagenous Lectin Of Liver 1 (CLL1)

**Function**: COLEC11 encodes for a protein known as collectin-11, which is a member of the collectin family of proteins. Collectins play a vital role in innate immunity through their ability to recognize and bind to a range of microbial pathogens via their carbohydrate recognition domains (CRDs). Collectin-11 binds to the surface of certain pathogens, triggering complement activation, phagocytosis by immune cells, and initiation of an inflammatory response. It also plays a role in renal and liver development and function.

**External IDs**:
- HGNC: 21961
- NCBI Entrez: 81035
- Ensembl: ENSG00000163818
- OMIM: 609983
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5KU26

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID**:

No aa mutations have been reported for COLEC11 in dbSNP.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**:

No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for COLEC11 in dbSNP.

**Related Disease**: 
COLEC11 is associated with several diseases, including:
- Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
- Inflammatory Bowel Disease
- Acute Kidney Injury

**Treatment and Prognosis**: No specific treatments targeting COLEC11 have been developed yet. Prognosis depends on the severity and progression of the associated disease.

**Drug Response**: No drug responses have been reported for COLEC11.

**References**:

1. Thiel S, Holmskov U, Hviid L, Laursen SB, Jensenius JC. The collectins: carbohydrate-binding proteins of the innate immune system. Curr Opin Struct Biol. 2002;12(5): 545-55. PMID: 12377106.
2. Ohtani K, Suzuki Y, Eda S, et al. The nephroprotective effect of a human collectin, CL-K1, on ischemia/reperfusion-induced acute kidney injury in mice. Sci Rep. 2018; 8: 15036. doi:10.1038/s41598-018-33234-7.
3. Francelin C, Hou G, Liu F, et al. Elevated Circulating Levels of Collectin-Like Protein 1 in Early-Stage Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. Front Immunol. 2020; 11: 587. doi:10.3389/fimmu.2020.00587.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**