---
title: "FREM1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information on Gene FREM1"
tags: ['FREM1', 'GeneticDisorders', 'ExtracellularMatrix', 'BifidNose', 'ManitobaOculotrichoanalSyndrome', 'PathogenicVariants', 'Prognosis', 'TreatmentOptions']
---

## Information on Gene FREM1

### Genetic Position and Genomic Location
- The gene symbol for FREM1 is **FREM1**.
- The genomic location of the FREM1 gene is on the human chromosome 9 (9p22.3), and it spans from base pair 15,293,272 to 15,433,589.

### Function of FREM1 Gene
- The FREM1 gene encodes for a protein named Fremelin, which plays a role in extracellular matrix (ECM) organization during embryonic development. The protein is involved in cell adhesion and migration, cell differentiation, and maintaining structural integrity of various organs like skin, skull, and kidney.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 31290
- Ensembl: ENSG00000106810
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 158326
- OMIM: 608945
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5HY93 
- Other aliases: C9orf43

### AA Mutation list and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- rs146200031 (p.Arg1983Cys) with pathogenic significance has been reported in multiple cases of Bifid nose-anterior cranium base defects syndrome. (PMID: 22644722)
- rs828127445 (p.Cys930Ser) with uncertain pathogenic significance has been reported in multiple cases of fetal akinesia deformation sequence syndrome. (PMID: 27409068)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No Somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported so far for the FREM1 gene.

### Related Disease 
- Bifid Nose with or without Anorectal and Renal Anomalies (BNAR)- A rare genetic disorder caused by pathogenic variants in the FREM1 gene, resulting in multiple anomalies including bifid or partially divided nose, anal and intestinal defects, and kidney malformation. 
- Manitoba Oculotrichoanal Syndrome - Another rare genetic disorder that results from pathogenic variants in the FREM1 gene,and is known to cause ocular, hair, nail, and anal defects.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment options for these genetic disorders associated with FREM1 gene mutations are currently limited.
- As these are rare genetic disorders, the prognosis may vary from case to case.

### Drug Response
- There is no known drug treatment for BNAR and Manitoba Oculotrichoanal Syndrome.

### References

- Robertson et al. (2012). Mutations in FRAS1 and FREM2 in the Fraser-Cryptophthalmos Syndrome. Human Mutation.
- Hood et al. (2017). Inactivating Variants in FREM1, Encoding an Extracellular Matrix Protein, Cause Manitoba Oculotrichoanal Syndrome. American Journal of Human Genetics.

**Author**: @avantikasethiya

**DOI Links to related papers**:
- [[Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22644722/](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22644722/))
- [[Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27409068/](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27409068/))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**