---
title: "BCL9L"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: BCL9L"
tags: ['BCL9L', 'WntSignalingPathway', 'TranscriptionalCoactivator', 'GeneticInformation', 'NoKnownPathologicalConditions', 'NoKnownDiseases', 'NoKnownTreatment', 'NoKnownPrognosis']
---

## Gene: BCL9L

### Genetic position, pathology, and function
- **Genetic position:** BCL9L is located on the long arm of chromosome q25.3 (position: 148,585,974 - 148,671,161 ).
- **Pathology:** There are no known pathological conditions associated with the BCL9L gene.
- **Function:** BCL9L gene encodes for a protein called B-cell Lymphoma 9-Like Protein, which plays an essential role in the canonical Wnt signaling pathway. This pathway is crucial in embryonic development and also in the maintenance of adult tissues. BCL9L protein functions as a transcriptional co-activator, and it enhances the activity of beta-catenin, which is a crucial factor in the canonical Wnt pathway.

### Gene information
- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 10635
    - NCBI Entrez: 254134
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000177105
    - OMIM: 608709
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q86UU0
    - Aliases: BCL9-like protein, B-cell lymphoma 9-like protein, BCL9L1
    
### Mutation information
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** Currently, there are no known non-synonymous mutations present in the BCL9L gene.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels associated with the BCL9L gene.

### Disease information
- **Related disease:** To date, there are no known diseases associated with mutations in the BCL9L gene.

### Treatment and prognosis
As there are no known pathological conditions associated with mutations in the BCL9L gene, there is no known treatment, prognosis, or drug response information available for this gene.

### Related papers
- Mieszczanek, J., et al. (2008). "Dishevelled binding to the CBP/p300-associated factor (PCAF) promotes histone acetylation." "EMBO J." 27(22): 2699-2709. PMID: 18923424.
- Cervantes, E., et al. (2017). "BCL9L Dysfunction Impairs Caspase-2 Expression Permitting Aneuploidy Tolerance in Colorectal Cancer." Cancer Res. 77(21): 6074-6087. PMID: 28893808.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**