---
title: "GCM2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene information for GCM2 "
tags: ['GCM2', 'GeneFunction', 'Pathology', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene information for GCM2 

### Genetic Position
- GCM2 (Glial cells missing homolog 2) is located on Chromosome 6 (6p24.3) in humans. 

### Pathology
- The mutation in the GCM2 gene is associated with Autosomal recessive foveal hypoplasia and Congenital Hypothyroidism.
        
### Gene Function
- GCM2 plays a crucial role in placental development and differentiation of trophoblast cells. It has also been linked to transcriptional regulation of thyroid specific genes.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 4120
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 9247 
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000124334 
- OMIM ID: 603716 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9UHJ7
- Aliases: GCMB, FKSG20
 
### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- There are several mutations reported for GCM2 but most of them are not pathogenic. 
- One of the pathogenic mutation is: c.920G>A (p.Arg307Gln) with dbSNP ID: rs752591674.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic mutations have been reported for GCM2 yet.

### Related Disease
- Autosomal recessive foveal hypoplasia and Congenital Hypothyroidism

### Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no cure for foveal hypoplasia and congenital hypothyroidism, but both conditions can be managed with hormone replacement therapies and other supportive treatments.

### Drug Response
- No specific drug has been reported for the treatment of foveal hypoplasia and congenital hypothyroidism.

### Related Papers
- **Author Names:** Planaguma-Arcol, JJ et al. 
  - **Link:** [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10882750)
- **Author Names:** Zhang, L et al. 
  - **Link:** [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26724912)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**