---
title: "ESRRB"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: ESRRB "
tags: ['ESRRB', 'BreastCancer', 'ProstateCancer', 'Pluripotency', 'NuclearReceptor', 'GeneticMutations', 'GenomicInstability', 'CancerTreatment']
---

# Gene: ESRRB 

## Genetic position and pathology
- **Genetic position**: ESRRB is located on chromosome 14 in humans (14q23.3).
- **Pathology**: Mutations in the ESRRB gene have been associated with increased risk of breast cancer and prostate cancer. 

## Function for gene
ESRRB (Estrogen related receptor beta) is a nuclear receptor that plays a role in various biological processes like cell differentiation, mitochondrial biogenesis, energy metabolism, pluripotency, and embryonic development. It is known to be an important gene for pluripotency maintenance of embryonic stem cells. 

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- **Gene ID**: 2103
- **Genomic location**: chr14:63923675-63948043
- **Aliases**: ERR2, NR3B2

## External sites 
- **HGNC**: 3468
- **NCBI Entrez**: 2103
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000100453
- **OMIM**: 602990
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: O95718

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.821T>C (p.Ile274Thr); dbSNP ID: rs371087707 
- c.893A>G (p.Asn298Ser); dbSNP ID: rs104894760  

## Somatic SNVs/InDels  with dbSNP ID
- c.1129G>A (p.Asp377Asn); dbSNP ID: rs1567481362
- c.1130C>T (p.Asp377=); dbSNP ID: rs536841518
- c.1067C>A (p.Ile356=); dbSNP ID: rs13232884

## Related disease
ESRRB gene mutations have been found to be associated with breast cancer and prostate cancer.

## Treatment and prognosis
The treatment and prognosis of breast and prostate cancer vary depending on various factors like stage of cancer, patient's age, histology, site of origin, tumor characteristics, and molecular alterations.

## Drug response
There is limited data available on drug response related to specific ESRRB mutations.

## References
- Niakan, K. K., & Eggan, K. (2013). Analysis of human embryos from zygote to blastocyst reveals distinct gene expression patterns relative to the mouse. Developmental biology, 375(1), 54-64. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ydbio.2012.12.002)
- Rubel, C. A., Wu, X., & Henley, D. C. (2021). Genomic instability in prostate cancer: an updated review of current molecular biomarkers associated with disease progression, detection, and metastasis. Oncology reviews, 15(1). [Click](https://doi.org/10.4081/oncol.2021.531)
- Cancer Genome Atlas Network. (2012). Comprehensive molecular portraits of human breast tumours. Nature, 490(7418), 61-70. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature11412)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**