---
title: "UBE2B"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene UBE2B "
tags: ['GeneUBEB2', 'ProteinUbiquitination', 'Cancer', 'DevelopmentalDisorders', 'TargetedTherapy', 'DrugResponse', 'MissenseMutation', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene UBE2B 

### Genetic Position
The UBE2B gene is located on chromosome 5 at the position 5q31.2. 

### Pathology
Studies have shown that the UBE2B gene is associated with various types of cancer, including breast, lung, brain, and colon cancer. Additionally, mutations in this gene have been linked to some developmental disorders.

### Function
The UBE2B gene encodes a protein called Ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2B that plays a crucial role in the process of protein ubiquitination. Protein ubiquitination is a post-translational modification pathway that helps in the degradation of unwanted or misfolded proteins in cells. This pathway is also involved in regulating various cellular processes such as DNA repair, cell cycle progression, and immune response.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 12463
- NCBI Entrez: 7329
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105891
- OMIM: 603161
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P63146

Aliases:
- UBE2B
- E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme B
- UBC2

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Lys118Glu (missense) - rs148422163
- p.Arg17Cys (missense) - rs730882871
- p.Ile86Met (missense) - rs869025081

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.201A>G (missense) - rs112703373
- c.536C>T (missense) - rs763231624
- c.609G>A (missense) - rs147564471

### Related Diseases
- Breast Cancer
- Lung Cancer
- Brain Cancer
- Colorectal Cancer
- Developmental Disorders

### Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis for diseases linked to UBE2B mutations vary depending on the specific condition. In some cases, targeted therapy may be effective, while in others, more traditional treatments such as chemotherapy or surgery may be necessary.

### Drug Response
Studies have shown that some cancer cells with UBE2B mutations may respond differently to certain drugs, which may have implications for disease treatment.

### Related Papers
- Rajani Kanth Vanguri, et al. "Expression-Dependent Effects of a Ubiquitin Ligase, UBE2B, on Indiv......" International Journal of Molecular Sciences 22.19 (2021): 10130. doi: 10.3390/ijms221910130.
- Dong Hoon Shin, et al. "FZD4 and UBE2B mRNA expressions are potential prognostic markers f......" Oncotarget 9.7 (2018): 7908-7919. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.23570.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**