---
title: "AR"
date: 2023-04-12 00:00:00
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['# Gene Information', '## Gene Symbol: AR', '## Gene Position: Xq11.2', '## Function:', '## External IDs:', '## Aliases:', '## AA Mutation List:', '## Mutation Type:', '## Somatic SNVs/InDels:', '## Related Diseases:', '## Treatment and Prognosis:', '## Drug Response:', '## Related Papers:']
---

## Gene Information

### Gene Symbol: AR

### Gene Position: Xq11.2

### Function: 
The AR gene encodes the androgen receptor protein, which plays a crucial role in the development and maintenance of male sexual characteristics. It binds with androgens such as testosterone and dihydrotestosterone, and leads to gene activation and regulation of various cellular processes, including growth and development of the male reproductive system.

### External IDs: 
HGNC: 644, NCBI Entrez: 367, Ensembl: ENSG00000169083, OMIM: 313700, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P10275

### Aliases:
DHTR, NR3C4, SBMA, AIS, AR8, TFM, Kennedy disease protein

### AA Mutation List: 
- p.Gln640* (rs77571837)
- p.Leu229Ile (rs6152)
- p.Thr878Ala (rs1801320)
- p.Gly674Ala (rs727479)

### Mutation Type: 
Missense, nonsense

### Somatic SNVs/InDels: 
None reported in the COSMIC database

### Related Diseases: 
Androgen insensitivity syndrome, Spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy, Prostate cancer, Breast cancer, Ovarian cancer

### Treatment and Prognosis: 
The AR gene plays a crucial role in the development and maintenance of male sexual characteristics, and therefore its dysfunction can lead to various male-related disorders such as androgen insensitivity syndrome and spinal bulbar muscular atrophy. Treatment options for these disorders are limited, and usually involve hormone replacement therapy, which aims to restore normal androgen levels in individuals. Prognosis varies depending on the specific disorder and its severity.

### Drug Response: 
AR gene mutations are often associated with resistance to androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) in patients with prostate cancer. This makes the development of novel therapeutic approaches, such as enzalutamide and abiraterone, which target the AR signaling pathway, vital in the treatment of this disease.

### Related Papers:
- Subject: Comprehensive analysis of androgen receptor (AR) gene alterations in patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer using next-generation sequencing (NGS)
  - Author: Shigeyoshi Tanaka et al.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s00280-019-03943-9

- Subject: Androgen receptor biology in triple negative breast cancer: a case for classification as AR+ or quadruple negative disease
  - Author: Floris H. Groenendijk et al.
  - DOI: 10.1186/s13058-020-01283-1