---
title: "SEMA3C"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene SEMA3C"
tags: ['SEMA3C', 'cancer', 'genetics', 'mutation', 'treatment', 'prognosis', 'drugresponse', 'research']
---

## Gene SEMA3C

### Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function:
- **Genetic position:** SEMA3C is located on chromosome 7 (7q21.3).
- **Pathology:** Although SEMA3C has been implicated in cancer progression and metastasis, its exact role in cancer is still under investigation.
- **Function:** SEMA3C belongs to the semaphorin family of proteins, which are involved in axon guidance, cell migration, and angiogenesis. SEMA3C functions as a repulsive guidance cue for neuronal axons and inhibits angiogenesis. Its role in cancer may involve promoting tumor cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.

### Gene and Genomic Location:
- **Gene ID:**  Semaphorin 3C (SEMA3C)
- **Aliases:** SEMA3, sema domain, immunoglobulin domain (Ig), short basic domain, secreted, (semaphorin) 3C, SEMA3C, SEMAJ, semaphorin J, Semaphorin-3C
- **External IDs:**
   - HGNC: 10724
   - NCBI Entrez: 9728
   - Ensembl: ENSG00000146675
   - OMIM: 607121
   - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P56706
   
 ### AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID:
 - There are several amino acid (AA) mutations listed in dbSNP database for SEMA3C. Some of the AA mutations with dbSNP ID are listed below:
   - p.Pro191Arg (rs147068947)
   - p.Tyr219Asn (rs369885695)
   - p.Ser260Pro (rs373361632)
   - p.Pro362Ser (rs150509316)
   
 ### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
 - There are several somatic SNVs/InDels reported for SEMA3C in dbSNP database. Some of them with dbSNP ID are as follows:
   - rs144526036
   - rs138917646
   - rs575076620
   - rs765360162
   
 ### Related Disease:
 - SEMA3C has been implicated in several types of cancers, including breast cancer, gastric cancer, and non-small cell lung cancer.
 
 ### Treatment and Prognosis:
 - Currently, there are no specific treatments targeting SEMA3C. However, its potential role in cancer progression and metastasis suggests that targeting SEMA3C could be a promising therapeutic strategy in the future.
 
 ### Drug Response:
 - There is no known drug response associated with SEMA3C.
 
 ### Related Papers:
 - Paper 1: 
   - **Title:** Semaphorin-3C 397 G>A polymorphism predicts lymph node metastasis and prognosis of patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
   - **Subject:** Non-small cell lung cancer
   - **Author:** Zhang L., et al.
   - **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11033-014-3132-9)
 
 - Paper 2:
   - **Title:** The role of semaphorin 3C in the tumorigenesis of gastric cancer.
   - **Subject:** Gastric cancer
   - **Author:** Yin Y., et al.
   - **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13046-016-0362-2)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**