---
title: "UBE2A"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene UBE2A"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'GeneAnalysis', 'UBE2A', 'XLID', 'ProteinDegradation', 'UbiquitinProteasomeSystem', 'IntellectualDisability', 'MutationAnalysis']
---

# Information on Gene UBE2A

## Genetic Position and Pathology
- Gene: UBE2A
- Chromosome: X chromosome
- Location: Xq24
- Pathology: UBE2A gene mutations have been associated with X-linked Intellectual Disability (XLID). 

## Function for Gene
- The protein encoded by the UBE2A gene is a member of the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme family.
- This enzyme is known to be involved in post-translational modification and protein degradation.
- It plays a crucial role in the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) pathway, which is responsible for the targeted degradation of specific proteins in the cell.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 12409
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 7329
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000102010
- OMIM ID: 312180
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P49427
- Aliases: E213, UBE2, UBCH2, UBCH3

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.320A>G (p.His107Arg) [dbSNP: rs121918137]
- c.155G>A (p.Val52Met) [dbSNP: rs147649873]
- c.596A>G (p.Lys199Arg) [dbSNP: rs121918139]
- c.790A>T (p.Asn264Ile) [dbSNP: rs794729654]
- c.718G>C (p.Ala240Pro) [dbSNP: rs201827404]

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Not applicable, as UBE2A mutations are associated with a genetic disorder, and not somatic cell mutations. 

## Related Disease
- X-linked Intellectual Disability (XLID)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no cure for XLID. Treatment options include medication and therapy to manage and alleviate symptoms. 
- Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the condition and individual factors.

## Drug Response
- There is no specific drug for treating XLID, however, some drugs used for managing the various symptoms include antipsychotics, stimulants, antidepressants, and antiepileptics.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** Identification of a novel UBE2A mutation in a family with X-linked intellectual disability. 
  - **Author:** Woodcock et al.
  - **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ygeno.2016.10.005)

- **Subject:** UBE2A deficiency syndrome: Mild to severe intellectual disability accompanied by seizures, absent speech, uro-genital, and skin anomalies in male patients. 
  - **Author:** Koyama et al.
  - **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/mgg3.525)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**