---
title: "SLC34A1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SLC34A1"
tags: ['SLC34A1', 'PhosphateTransporter', 'RenalCalculi', 'PhosphateWastingDisorders', 'Hypophosphatemia', 'BoneMineralization', 'DNA', 'Synthesis', 'GeneticVariations']
---

# Information about Gene SLC34A1

## Genetic Position
SLC34A1 gene is located on chromosome 5q35.3.

## Pathology
There is limited information on the pathology associated with SLC34A1 gene mutations. However, some studies have suggested that genetic variations in this gene may play a role in the development of renal calculi and phosphate wasting disorders.

## Function
The SLC34A1 gene encodes a sodium-dependent phosphate transporter that plays a critical role in the reabsorption of phosphate ions in the kidney. It is responsible for maintaining appropriate levels of phosphate in the body and is crucial for many physiological processes, including bone mineralization, energy metabolism, and DNA synthesis.

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- HGNC: 11056
- NCBI Entrez: 6556
- Ensembl: ENSG00000145675
- OMIM: 182309
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P56479
- Genomic Location: Chr5 :180,528,448-180,562,310 GRCh38

Aliases:
- NAPI-2a
- NPT2
- NPT2A
- Renal sodium-dependent phosphate transport protein 2A

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
Limited information is available on AA mutations in SLC34A1. However, dbSNP ID rs121912759 has been reported in the literature as a missense mutation found in patients with renal phosphate wasting disorder.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Limited information is available on somatic SNVs/InDels in SLC34A1.

## Related Disease
Genetic variations in SLC34A1 have been associated with the development of renal calculi, hypophosphatemia, and other phosphate wasting disorders.

## Treatment and prognosis
There are currently no known treatments for genetic disorders associated with SLC34A1. Treatment options for related diseases depend on the underlying cause and severity of symptoms.

## Drug response
No information is available on drug responses associated with SLC34A1 gene mutations.

## Related Papers
- Bergwitz C, Jüppner H. Regulation of phosphate homeostasis by PTH, vitamin D, and FGF23. Annu Rev Med. 2010;61:91-104. doi: 10.1146/annurev.med.051308.130351
- Lorenz-Depiereux B, Bastepe M, Benet-Pagès A, et al. DMP1 mutations in autosomal recessive hypophosphatemia implicate a bone matrix protein in the regulation of phosphate homeostasis. Nat Genet. 2006 Sep;38(9):1248-50. doi: 10.1038/ng1852. Epub 2006 Aug 6.
- Satoh H, Susaki K, Tsuchiya T, et al. Novel missense mutations of NaPi-IIa causing renal phosphate wasting with different mechanisms. Kidney Int. 2005 Oct;68(4):1253-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-1755.2005.00516.x.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**