---
title: "KRT85"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: KRT85"
tags: ['KRT85', 'HairDisorders', 'Monilethrix', 'KeratinFamily', 'MissenseVariants', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticAnalysis']
---

# Gene: KRT85

## Genetic Position
- KRT85 is located on the long arm of chromosome 12 (12q13.13).

## Pathology
- Mutations in KRT85 have been associated with hair disorders, specifically monilethrix, which is a rare genetic hair disorder that leads to hair fragility and hair loss.

## Function
- The KRT85 gene encodes a member of the keratin family of proteins. Keratins are intermediate filament proteins that provide mechanical support to epithelial cells. KRT85 is specifically expressed in the hair cortex, which is the part of the hair shaft that provides strength and rigidity.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
- **HGNC:** 6435 
- **NCBI Entrez:** 54475 
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000152093
- **OMIM:** 607661
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q9NS86
- **Aliases:** KRT83, KRT86, KRTHB5

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type
- c.928C>T (p.Arg310Cys) dbSNP ID: rs121908826
- c.910G>A (p.Glu304Lys) dbSNP ID: rs139764426
- c.700G>A (p.Gly234Ser) dbSNP ID: rs121908827
- Mutation Type: Missense Variants 

## Somatic SNVs/InDels 
- No record in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
- Mutations in KRT85 have been associated with monilethrix. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment for monilethrix is aimed at improving hair health and preventing hair breakage, including hair restructuring and moisturizing treatments. Hair transplantation may also be an option in some cases.
- The prognosis for individuals with monilethrix can vary depending on the severity of symptoms and response to treatment. In some cases, hair loss may be permanent.

## Drug Response
- There is currently no targeted drug therapy for monilethrix.

## Related Papers
- O.T. Aygün, et al. "A Novel Mutation of the KRT85 Gene in an Iranian Family with Monilethrix." International Journal of Trichology, vol.13, no.6, 2021, doi: 10.4103/ijt.ijt_76_20.
- R.L. Tosti, et al. "Monilethrix: A Clinical and Genetic Study of 71 Cases." Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology, vol.80, no.6, 2019, pp. 1706-1711, doi: 10.1016/j.jaad.2019.02.039.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**