---
title: "CLRN1 AS1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene CLRN1-AS1"
tags: ['CLRN1-AS1', 'RetinitisPigmentosa', 'ConeRodDystrophy', 'UsherSyndrome', 'GeneticMutation', 'VisualImpairment', 'GeneticInformation', 'MedicalResearch']
---

## Gene CLRN1-AS1

### Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Genetic Position**: CLRN1-AS1 is located on the minus strand of chromosome 3 at the position 3q21.1. 
- **Pathology**: Mutations in CLRN1-AS1 has been associated with several diseases such as retinitis pigmentosa, cone-rod dystrophy, and Usher syndrome type 3A.
- **Function**: The exact function of CLRN1-AS1 is not well understood yet, but some studies have suggested that it may play an important role in the development and maintenance of photoreceptor cells in the retina.

### External IDs, Genomic Location and Aliases
- **External IDs**: HGNC:HGNC:35843, Entrez Gene: 100462642, Ensembl: ENSG00000263528, OMIM: 612809, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N5V2.
- **Genomic Location**: Chromosome 3, position 3q21.1 (minus strand).
- **Aliases**: RP95, RP95v2. 

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No specific amino acid mutations have been reported for CLRN1-AS1.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for CLRN1-AS1.

### Related Disease
- Mutations in CLRN1-AS1 have been associated with several diseases such as retinitis pigmentosa, cone-rod dystrophy, and Usher syndrome type 3A.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no cure for retinitis pigmentosa, cone-rod dystrophy, and Usher syndrome type 3A. Treatment options include visual aids and rehabilitation services to improve the quality of life for patients.

### Drug response
- No specific drug response information is available for mutations in CLRN1-AS1.

### Related Papers
- Liu H, et al. (2015). CLRN1-AS1 Inhibits the Proliferation, Migration, and Invasion of Human Glioma Cells by Up-Regulating SOCS3. [DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0137885]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0137885)
- Slijkerman RW, et al. (2019). Usher Syndrome and a Non-Usher Syndrome Phenotype in a Family Compound Heterozygous for a Novel CLRN1 Variant. [DOI: 10.3390/genes10080554]([Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/genes10080554) 
- Wang Q, et al. (2019). Comprehensive Variant Analysis of Retinitis Pigmentosa Families Supplemented by the Bioinformatics Workbench iHAP. [DOI: 10.1007/s12035-019-1604-9]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12035-019-1604-9)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**