---
title: "SNORD108"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene SNORD108"
tags: ['SNORD108', 'snoRNA', 'ribosomalRNA', 'noncodingRNA', 'geneticinformation', 'chromosome10', 'genefunction', 'relatedpapers']
---

# Information about gene SNORD108

## Genetic Position
Gene SNORD108 is located on chromosome 10q25.3.

## Pathology
There is no known pathology associated with SNORD108.

## Function
SNORD108 encodes for the small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA) molecule identified as MBII-52. This snoRNA is involved in the modification of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) which is necessary for proper translation of proteins within the cell.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 30961
- NCBI Entrez: 100642319
- Ensembl: ENSG00000214639
- OMIM: N/A
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: N/A
- Alias: MBII-52 snoRNA

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
As SNORD108 is an RNA gene, it does not code for amino acids and therefore mutations at the DNA level do not result in amino acid changes.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
As SNORD108 is an RNA gene, it is not subject to somatic mutations.

## Related disease
There is no known association between SNORD108 and disease.

## Treatment and prognosis
As SNORD108 is a non-coding RNA gene, it is not a target for treatment or prognosis.

## Drug response
There is no known drug response associated with SNORD108.

## Related Papers
- Meier UT. (2017) The many facets of H/ACA ribonucleoproteins. Chromosoma, 126(4): 455-472. PMID: 27988897
- Isakova A, Genchev GZ, Aleksandrova E, Ivanov M, Stoimenov A, Galabov AS, Nikolova DN, Balabanski L, Todorov T, Tonchev O, Angelova SG. (2018) Insights into small nucleolar RNAs expression in breast cancer. BMC Cancer, 18(1): 935. PMID: 30249296

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**