---
title: "MAP2K2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene MAP2K2"
tags: ['MAP2K2', 'MitogenActivatedProteinKinase', 'Cancer', 'NoonanSyndrome', 'CardiofaciocutaneousSyndrome', 'Trametinib', 'TargetedTherapy', 'ERK1/2']
---

# Information about gene MAP2K2

## Genetic Position
MAP2K2 (Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 2) is located on chromosome 15q22.31.

## Pathology and Function
MAP2K2 encodes a protein that is a member of the MAP kinase kinase family. This protein is essential for the activation of the ERK1/2 and JNK/SAPK signaling pathways, which are involved in various cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. Mutations in this gene have been linked to multiple diseases such as cancer, Noonan syndrome, and cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome.

## Gene ID, Genomic Location and Aliases
- Gene ID: 5605
- Genomic Location: 15q22.31
- Aliases: MAPKK2, MEK2, PRKMK2

## External IDs
- HGNC: 6844
- NCBI Entrez: 5605
- Ensembl: ENSG0000016906
- OMIM: 601263
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P36507

## AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Val60Gly (rs121434591)
- p.Leu115Phe (rs121912627)
- p.Arg294Trp (rs121913079)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.1157A>G (rs121913080)
- c.1160T>C (rs121913081)
- c.1160T>A (rs121913082)

## Related Disease
- Cancer
- Noonan Syndrome
- Cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome

## Treatment and Prognosis
Targeting MAP2K2 has been proposed as a potential therapeutic strategy for certain cancers. The prognosis and treatment for diseases caused by MAP2K2 mutations vary depending on the specific disease and severity of the symptoms.

## Drug Response
Inhibitors have been developed that target MAP2K2, such as Trametinib which is used to treat certain types of cancer.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** Molecular mechanism of sustained activation of RAF/MEK/ERK pathway in cancer. 
  - **Author Names:** Halil Bisgin, Gorkem Sevinc, Levent Karagulle,&nbsp;et al.&nbsp;
  - **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1080/15384047.2019.1638991)
  
- **Subject:** Targeting MEK in cancer: rationale and strategies for current clinical development. 
  - **Author Names:** Sosipatros Charalambous, Victoria J. Smith, and Udai Banerji.
  - **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40265-017-0745-1)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**