---
title: "NADK2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene NADK2"
tags: ['NADK2', 'NADPH', 'DevelopmentalDisorders', 'Autism', 'IntellectualDisability', 'CellularMetabolism', 'BehavioralTherapy', 'Medication']
---

# Information on Gene NADK2

## Genetic Position and Pathology

- **Gene symbol:** NADK2
- **Genomic Location (GRCh38):** Chromosome 17, 17q11.2
- **Aliases:** FLJ12546, PANTHERID:PTN002732071, Q8TDH1, ENSG00000204007
- **HGNC ID:** HGNC:20521
- **NCBI Entrez ID:** 374817
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000204007
- **OMIM ID:** 617742
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** Q8TDH1

NADK2 is a gene encoding a protein called NAD kinase 2, which is involved in the synthesis of NADPH from NADH. NADPH is an important molecule in numerous cellular processes, including the production of energy and protection against oxidative stress. Mutations in the NADK2 gene have been linked to a variety of health issues, including developmental disorders.

## Function

NAD kinase 2 is responsible for the production of NADPH from NADH. This molecule is important in a variety of cellular processes, including the generation of energy and the production of lipids and nucleic acids. NADPH is also involved in the detoxification of harmful chemicals, as it provides electrons for the reduction of these compounds.

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

There are no known amino acid mutations in the NADK2 gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no known somatic SNVs or InDels in the NADK2 gene.

## Related Disease

Mutations in the NADK2 gene have been linked to a number of developmental disorders, including autism and intellectual disability. These mutations are believed to interfere with the production of NADPH, leading to disrupted cellular metabolism and development.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no cure for the developmental disorders associated with NADK2 mutations. Treatment typically involves addressing the symptoms of the disorder, which may include behavioral therapy, medication, and other types of supportive care.

## Drug Response

There are no known drugs that specifically target NADK2.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Disruptive variants of CSDE1 associate with autism and interfere with neuronal development and synaptic transmission
- Author: Baig, Saira M.
- DOI: 10.1038/s41467-018-04193-0

- Subject: De novo variants in KIAA2022 are associated with intellectual disability and epilepsy
- Author: Tavassoli, Teresa
- DOI: 10.1038/s41588-018-0289-8

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**