---
title: "TUFM"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene TUFM"
tags: ['TUFM', 'MitochondrialDisease', 'Encephalomyopathy', 'Mutation', 'ProteinSynthesis', 'SupportiveCare', 'DrugResearch', 'MLASASyndrome']
---

# Information on Gene TUFM

## Genetic Position
- Gene: TUFM (Tu translation elongation factor mitochondrial)
- Chromosome: 16
- Genomic Location: 16p11.2
- Strand: Plus
- Gene start: 29,794,050 bp
- Gene end: 29,809,238 bp

## Pathology and Function
- TUFM gene codes for the mitochondrial Tu translation elongation factor, which is involved in mitochondrial protein synthesis.
- Mutations in TUFM are associated with encephalomyopathy, a mitochondrial disease that affects the brain and muscles.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 12412
- NCBI Entrez ID: 7284
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000182831
- OMIM ID: 612075
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P49411
- Other aliases: EF-TuM, EF-TUM, EF-TU(M)

## AA Mutation list with rsID
- p.Arg363Gln, rs780434287
- p.Arg476Trp, rs836225993

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs751573629
- rs755947453

## Related Disease
- Encephalomyopathy

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment options for mitochondrial diseases like encephalomyopathy are limited. However, supportive measures and symptom management can be helpful.
- The prognosis for encephalomyopathy varies depending on the severity of the disease and its associated symptoms.

## Drug Response
- There is currently no available drug specifically designed to address mitochondrial diseases like encephalomyopathy.
- However, researchers are exploring potential treatment options, including drugs that target mitochondrial function.

## Related Papers
- Subject: TUFM mutations are associated with mitochondrial dysfunction and encephalomyopathy with elevated lactic acid and complex II deficiency
- Author: Garcin, Romain et al. 
- DOI: 10.1002/ana.25064

- Subject: Mutation of the mitochondrial tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase gene, YARS2, causes myopathy, lactic acidosis, and sideroblastic anemia--MLASA syndrome
- Author: Riley, Lisa G et al. 
- DOI: 10.1038/ng1702

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**