---
title: "C1R"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene C1R"
tags: ['GeneC1R', 'ComplementSystem', 'HereditaryAngioedema', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'ImmuneSystem', 'Swelling']
---

# Information about Gene C1R

## Genetic Position
Gene C1R is located on the long arm of chromosome 12 (12q41).

## Pathology and Function 
C1R gene encodes a serine protease that plays a vital role in the activation of the complement system. The complement system is a part of the immune system that aids in the defense against infections, but it can also lead to inflammation and tissue damage depending on its activation status. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 715
- Genomic Location: Chr12:111,015,427-111,026,209
- Aliases: Complement C1r subcomponent, C1R1, CPAMD11, C1r, Complement Component 1 (s) subcomponent, C1R-B

## External Sites
- HGNC: 1339
- NCBI Entrez: 715
- Ensembl: ENSG00000148902
- OMIM: 216950
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P00736

## AA Mutation list and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Gly273Ala, Missense, rs121912972
- p.Val538Gly, Missense, rs116374732
- p.Asn746Ser, Missense, rs199469250

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.338+1G>A, rs774271155
- c.1815A>G, rs142198835

## Related Disease
Mutations in the C1R gene have been associated with Hereditary Angioedema (HAE), a rare genetic disorder characterized by recurrent attacks of swelling in various body parts, including the face, limbs, and gastrointestinal tract. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for HAE, and the current treatments focus on managing the symptoms. Medications that can help to control the symptoms include C1-inhibitor concentrate, bradykinin B2 receptor antagonists, and kallikrein inhibitors.

## Drug Response
Some studies suggest that the response to certain medications used to treat HAE may be influenced by specific C1R gene mutations. For example, the C1-inhibitor concentrate seems to be more effective in patients with specific mutations.

## Related Papers
1. Author: Cichon S et al.
    - DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2012.03.013
    - Title: A coding variant in the C1R gene is associated with incident Alzheimer's disease in Caucasians
2. Author: Kaplan AP et al.
    - DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2019.06.009
    - Title: Angioedema Attacks and Treatment in the Southern Hemisphere: A Global Analysis of Patients Enrolled in the Icatibant Outcome Survey
3. Author: Lippi G et al.
    - DOI: 10.1016/j.thromres.2019.07.011
    - Title: Clinical variable and VCF file data of hereditary angioedema patients in a large Italian database.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**