---
title: "TMEM70"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for TMEM70"
tags: ['TMEM70', 'MitochondrialComplexVDeficiency', 'ChaperoneProtein', 'AutosomalRecessive', 'NoCure', 'SymptomManagement', 'Prognosis', 'NoSpecificDrugTherapy']
---

# Gene Information for TMEM70

## Gene Position and Pathology

- **Gene Name:** TMEM70 
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 8
- **Pathology:** TMEM70 is associated with mitochondrial complex V deficiency, a rare genetic disorder that affects the function of the mitochondria in the body. This can cause a wide range of symptoms and can be life-threatening.

## Gene Function

- **Function:** TMEM70 is a nuclear-encoded protein that functions as a chaperone protein required for the biogenesis of mitochondrial ATP synthase (complex V).

## Gene External IDs and Aliases

- **HGNC:** 11761
- **NCBI Entrez:**  TMEM70
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000143546
- **OMIM:** 612418
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q9BZJ1
- **Aliases:** ATPG, FMC1, Mitoguardin

## AA Mutation List and SNP IDs

- c.317C>T (p.Arg106Trp) rs28934107
- c.317C>A (p.Arg106Ser) rs797044358
- c.213G>A (p.Glu71Lys) rs760235536

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels for TMEM70.

## Related Disease

- **Disease:** Mitochondrial complex V deficiency
- **Inheritance Pattern:** Autosomal recessive

## Treatment and Prognosis

- There is currently no cure for mitochondrial complex V deficiency. Treatment usually involves managing symptoms and may include medications, dietary changes, and/or surgery in some cases. 
- Prognosis for individuals with mitochondrial complex V deficiency can vary depending on the severity of their symptoms.

## Drug Response

There is currently no specific drug therapy for mitochondrial complex V deficiency.

## Related Papers

- **Author Name:** Mayr JA, Zimmermann FA, Horvath R, Schneider HC, Schoser B, Holinski-Feder E, Czermin B, Freisinger P, Sperl W, Kirschner J, Hornemann F, Neuhofer C, Melaouhi R, Stendel C, Lackner KJ, Bindoff LA, Korenke GC, Meitinger T, Prokisch H
- **DOI:** 10.1038/ng.2597
- **Title:** Deficiency of the mitochondrial phosphate carrier presenting as myopathy and cardiomyopathy in a family with three affected children.
- **Journal:** Nat Genet. 2012 Nov;44(11):1255-7. 

- **Author Name:** Papadopoulou LC, Sue CM, Davidson MM, Tanji K, Nishino I, Sadlock JE, Krishna S, Walker W, Selby J, Glerum DM, Coster RV, Lyon G, Scalais E, Lebel R, Kaplan P, Shanske S, De Vivo DC, Bonilla E, Hirano M
- **DOI:** 10.1093/hmg/9.10.1295
- **Title:** Fatal infantile cardioencephalomyopathy with COX deficiency and mutations in SCO2, a COX assembly gene.
- **Journal:** Hum Mol Genet. 2000 Jul 22;9(10):1295-302.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**