---
title: "ARX"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ARX"
tags: ['ARXgene', 'neurodevelopmentaldisorders', 'intellectualdisability', 'epilepsy', 'Lissencephaly', 'Partingtonsyndrome', 'mutation', 'cerebralcortex']
---

# Gene ARX

## Introduction

ARX gene is located on Xp22.13 and encodes a homeobox-containing transcription factor, Aristaless-related homeobox. Mutations in the ARX gene have been associated with a range of neurodevelopmental disorders and X-linked intellectual disability syndromes.

## Function

ARX gene is involved in the development of the central nervous system, particularly in the formation and differentiation of the cerebral cortex. It is also involved in pancreatic islet cell differentiation and development.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 782
- NCBI Entrez: 170302
- Ensembl: ENSG00000185059
- OMIM: 300382
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O14699
- Aliases: PRTS, G-NOF, ISSX, MRX29, Partington syndrome

## Mutation List

- AA mutation list: p.Glu47fs, p.Arg85Trp, p.Gln105*, p.Arg215*, p.Ser244Cys, p.Asp272Tyr, p.Ser284Phe, p.Arg332Pro, p.Ser368X.
- Mutation type: Frameshift, nonsense, missense, stop gained.
- dbSNP ID: rs387906852, rs120074187, rs113994197, rs145412743, rs375411276, rs1064794627.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

- dbSNP IDs: rs777090290, rs760710879, rs755304759, rs764880968

## Related Diseases

ARX gene mutations are linked with various diseases such as:

- Epilepsy
- West syndrome
- Lissencephaly
- Proud syndrome
- Partington syndrome

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no specific treatment for ARX gene mutations as of now. However, symptomatic treatment can be provided for various conditions depending on the symptoms.

## Drug Response

There is no known drug response related to ARX gene as of now.

## Related Papers

- **Subject:** ARX gene mutations in X-linked intellectual disability and epilepsy syndromes.
  - **Author:** Bill BR, Geschwind DH.
  - **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.plipres.2020.03.010)
  
- **Subject:** ARX, a gene for mental retardation and epilepsy, is essential for normal development of the cerebral cortex in mice and humans. 
  - **Author:** Colasante G, et al.
  - **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1258-08.2008)
  
- **Subject:** ARX mutations in X-linked lissencephaly with abnormal genitalia.
  - **Author:** Shoubridge C, et al.
  - **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1474-4422(03)00214-2)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**