---
title: "NME8"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['NME8', 'NDPK', 'Cancer', 'GeneExpression', 'ColorectalCancer', 'TherapeuticPotential', 'MetastasisSuppression', 'Apoptosis']
---

## Gene Information
- **Gene symbol:** NME8
- **Genomic location:** Chromosome 17q21.2
- **Aliases:** NDK8, NM23-H8, NME/NM23 family member 8

## Function
NME8 is a member of the NME/NM23 gene family that encodes nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDPK), which is involved in the regulation of several cellular processes, including cell proliferation, differentiation, migration, and apoptosis. Studies indicate that NME8 may have a role in the regulation of gene expression, particularly in carcinogenesis.

## External IDs and sites
- **HGNC ID:** 18112
- **NCBI Entrez ID:** 64920
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000184530
- **OMIM ID:** 612223
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** Q9H7Z6

## Mutations
- No AA mutations have been reported thus far for NME8.
- No somatic SNVs or InDels have been reported for NME8 in dbSNP.

## Related disease
There is limited information about the association of NME8 with diseases. However, studies suggest that NME8 may play a role in the development and progression of several cancers, including colorectal cancer.

## Treatment and prognosis
The treatment and prognosis associated with NME8 are unknown. Further research is necessary to understand the role of NME8 in cancer development and progression and its therapeutic potential.

## Drug response
There is currently no information about the drug response of NME8.

## Related papers
- Longo DL, et al. Nucleoside diphosphate kinase/nm23 and signal transduction. J Bioenerg Biomembr. 1994, 26(5): 537-43. DOI: 10.1007/BF00763215
- Stark M, et al. miR-514a regulates the tumour suppressor NF1 and modulates BRAFi sensitivity in melanoma. Oncotarget. 2015, 6(19): 17753-63. DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.4363
- Beretta GL, et al. NME protein family and TGF-β signaling: linking metastasis suppression and apoptosis. Drug Resist Updat. 2010, 13(5-6): 207-18. DOI: 10.1016/j.drup.2010.08.002

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**