---
title: "PTS"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene PTS"
tags: ['GenePTS', 'Tetrahydrobiopterin', 'Hyperphenylalaninemia', 'Enzyme', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene PTS

### Information

- **Genetic Position**: Chromosome 11:112,139,285-112,151,018
- **Function for Gene**: PTS gene encodes for an enzyme known as 6-pyruvoyl tetrahydrobiopterin synthase which is involved in the synthesis of tetrahydrobiopterin.
- **External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases**: HGNC:9631; Ensembl:ENSG00000042781; NCBI Entrez:5804
- **External sites**: OMIM:612719; UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P49687
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID**: No aa mutation reported yet.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: No somatic SNVs/Indels reported yet.
- **Related Disease**: Defects in PTS gene cause hyperphenylalaninemia due to tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency.
- **Treatment and Prognosis**: Treatment includes the administration of L-dopa, the use of tetrahydrobiopterin replacement therapy, and a phenylalanine-restricted diet. Prognosis depends on the severity of the deficiency and the success of interventions.
- **Drug Response**: Some patients may not respond to tetrahydrobiopterin therapy and may need higher doses or alternative treatments.
- **Subject, Author Name, DOI Links to Related Papers**: 
    - `Subject`: Human 6-pyruvoyltetrahydrobiopterin synthase (PTPS) deficiency: clinical and metabolic consequences.
        - `Author Name`: Thony B, Auerbach G, Blau N.
        - `DOI Links`: 10.3109/10409239409083482
    
    - `Subject`: Tetrahydrobiopterin (BH(4)) responsiveness in phenylketonuria: results from the BH(4) registry.
        - `Author Name`: Burton BK, Grange DK, Milanowski A, Vockley G, Feigenbaum A, Barshop B, Cederbaum S, Waisbren S, Longo N, Dionisi-Vici C, Dobbelaere D, Burgard P, Grunert S, Harmatz P, Jahja R, Krischer JP, Ng W, Rice GM.
        - `DOI Links`: 10.1186/1750-1172-4-6

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**