---
title: "CHMP2B"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene CHMP2B"
tags: ['GeneCHMP2B', 'FrontotemporalDementia', 'AmyotrophicLateralSclerosis', 'EndosomalSorting', 'MissenseMutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information on Gene CHMP2B

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function:
- Chromosome: 3
- Genomic Location: 3p11.2 
- Pathology: Mutations in CHMP2B have been associated with Frontotemporal dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FTDALS3) 
- Function: CHMP2B is involved in endosomal sorting and microtubule-severing 

## Gene Information:
- **Aliases:** CHMP2.5, VPS2.2, CGI-116, DKFZP566L1342 
- **External IDs:** 
  - HGNC: 23326
  - NCBI Entrez Gene: 54514
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000163921
  - OMIM: 609290
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O43633

## Mutation Information:
- **AA Mutation List:** Some of the amino acid missense mutations that have been reported are D24V, Q96K, G114V, and V162L.
- **Mutation Type:** Missense
- **dbSNP ID:** rs147760355, rs80356572, rs80356541, rs80356573

## Somatic SNVs/InDels:
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported.

## Related Disease: 
Mutations in CHMP2B have been associated with Frontotemporal dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FTDALS3).

## Treatment and Prognosis:
There is no cure for Frontotemporal dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, but drugs like memantine and riluzole are used to treat symptoms associated with the disease. The prognosis for individuals with CHMP2B-related FTDALS3 is poor as the disease progression is rapid.

## Drug Response:
Research suggests that certain drugs like rapamycin, lithium, and valproic acid could have a positive response towards treating FTD, but more studies are needed.

## Related Papers:
- Reckova, J., Růžička, F., Vystavelova, A., Zeman, D., Zahorakova, D., & Martasek, P. (2019). Classification and molecular pathology of FTD and ALS. 
- Lashley, T., Rohrer, J., Mead, S., Revesz, T., & Review, F. (2015). Review: An update on clinical, genetic and pathological aspects of frontotemporal lobar degenerations.
- Urwin, H., Authier, A., Nielsen, J. E., Metcalf, D., Powell, C., Froud, K., ... & Fu, Y. H. (2010). Disruption of endocytic trafficking in frontotemporal dementia with CHMP2B mutations.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**