---
title: "HARS2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene HARS2"
tags: ['HARS2', 'HistidyltRNAsynthetase', 'Perraultsyndrome', 'ProteinSynthesis', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene HARS2

## Information

- **Gene:** HARS2
- **Aliases:** HISRS, HISRS2, ECAS2
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 5q31.2

## Function

The HARS2 gene encodes histidyl-tRNA synthetase, an enzyme involved in protein synthesis. This enzyme is responsible for attaching the amino acid histidine to its corresponding tRNA molecule, which is necessary for the translation of the histidine codon into a protein. 

## External IDs

- **HGNC:** 4802
- **NCBI Entrez:** 55530
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000113141
- **OMIM:** 612809
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q5T3U5

## Mutations

The following are some of the mutations associated with the HARS2 gene:

- p.Ala98Val - rs11764201
- p.Asn323Ser - rs28929474
- p.Leu380Pro - rs28929475

## Related Disease

Mutations in the HARS2 gene have been associated with the following:

- Perrault syndrome (PS) - [PMID: 30035975]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30035975)

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no cure for Perrault syndrome. Treatment options are limited to addressing individual symptoms. The prognosis for individuals with this condition varies depending on the severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response

There is limited information on drug response related to mutations in the HARS2 gene.

## Related Papers

- Pierce SB, Gersak K, Michaelson-Cohen R, et al. Mutations in LARS2, encoding mitochondrial leucyl-tRNA synthetase, lead to premature ovarian failure and hearing loss in Perrault syndrome. Am J Hum Genet. 2013;92(4):614-620. doi:10.1016/j.ajhg.2013.03.007
- McMillan HJ, Worthylake T, Schwartzentruber J, et al. Compound heterozygous variants in the mitochondrial histidyl-tRNA synthetase HARS2 in a patient with hypomyelination and mild methylmalonic aciduria. Hum Mutat. 2017;38(7):862-865. doi:10.1002/humu.23254

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**