---
title: "EDN3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information About Gene EDN3"
tags: ['GeneEDN3', 'WaardenburgSyndrome', 'NeuralCrestCells', 'HearingLoss', 'PigmentationChanges', 'IntestinalAbnormalities', 'Endothelin3', 'GeneticDisorder']
---

# Information About Gene EDN3

## Genetic Position
The EDN3 gene is located on chromosome 20q13.32

## Pathology
EDN3 gene mutations have been associated with Waardenburg syndrome type 4b, which is a rare genetic disorder characterized by hearing loss, pigmentation changes in hair, skin and eyes, and intestinal abnormalities.

## Function for Gene
The EDN3 gene encodes for the endothelin-3 protein, which is involved in the regulation of blood pressure, as well as the differentiation and migration of neural crest cells during embryonic development.

## External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- Gene ID: 1909
- Genomic location: NC_000020.10 (38412577..38451511, complement)
- Alias: ET3

## External Sites
- HGNC: 3334
- NCBI Entrez: 1909
- Ensembl: ENSG00000125826
- OMIM: 131242
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P14138


## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.118C>T (p.Arg40Trp) rs104894391
- c.269T>C (p.Tyr90His) rs104894392

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for the EDN3 gene.

## Related Disease
- Waardenburg syndrome type 4b

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for Waardenburg syndrome type 4b. Treatment focuses on managing symptoms, such as hearing aids for hearing loss and surgery for intestinal abnormalities.

## Drug Response
There is currently no reported drug response information for the EDN3 gene.

## Subject, Author Name, DOI Links to Related Papers
- Mutations in the endothelin 3 gene associated with isolated congenital aganglionosis (Hirschsprung's disease), by Puffenberger EG et al. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1006/geno.1994.1312)
- A homozygous mutation in the endothelin-3 gene associated with a combined Waardenburg type 2 and Hirschsprung phenotype (Shah-Waardenburg syndrome), by Edery P et al. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/hmg/ddg100)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**