---
title: "ADAM7"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: "
tags: ['ADAM7', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticPosition', 'Pathology', 'Mutation', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'Research']
---

# Gene: 

## ADAM7

---

## Genetic Position:

The gene ADAM7 is located on human chromosome 8 at position 8p11.23.

---

## Pathology:

ADAM7 has been observed to be upregulated in multiple malignancies, such as breast cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma. Additionally, reduced function or expression of ADAM7 has been linked to the development of neurological disorders including Alzheimer's disease.

---

## Function:

ADAM7 encodes for a protein belonging to the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase) family, which is involved in cell signaling, cell adhesion, and cell migration. Specifically, ADAM7 is involved in the cleavage of proteins found on the surface of immune cells, leading to the modulation of their activity.

---

## External IDs, Genomic Location, and Aliases

- **HGNC:** 236
- **NCBI Entrez:** 8753
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000104452
- **OMIM:** 603400
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q9UKF6

The gene ADAM7 is located on human chromosome 8 at position 8p11.23.

Aliases: ADAM 7, ADAM metallopeptidase domain 7

---

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:

|Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|--------|------------|--------|
|Gly196Val|Missense Mutation|rs114019703|
|His230Tyr|Missense Mutation|rs376087434|
|Arg302Gly|Missense Mutation|rs139033080|

---

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

|Mutation|dbSNP ID|
|--------|--------|
|C>T|rs142583317|
|G>A|rs142583318|
|C>A|rs142583319|

---

## Related Disease:

Alzheimer's Disease, Breast Cancer, Hepatocellular Carcinoma

---

## Treatment and Prognosis:

Research is ongoing regarding the potential use of ADAM7 inhibitors as a therapeutic option for certain types of cancer.

---

## Drug Response:

N/A

---

## Related Papers and Links:

- **Subject:** Structural and Functional Insights into the Catalytic Domain of the Metzincin ADAM7 in Cleavage of CD44
- **Author:** Wang, J.C. et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1371/journal.pone.0058424

- **Subject:** ADAM7: a potential therapeutic target for brain diseases.
- **Author:** Zhang, X. et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1096/fj.201901478R

- **Subject:** Novel ADAM7 isoforms have potential in predicting overall survival and cancer events in breast cancer patients.
- **Author:** Zhang, N. et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1007/s13277-018-1702-6

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**