---
title: "ARHGEF9"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene ARHGEF9"
tags: ['ARHGEF9', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Epilepsy', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'InhibitorySynapses', 'Mutation', 'TreatmentOptions']
---

## Information about Gene ARHGEF9

### Genetic Position
The gene ARHGEF9 is located on the long arm of the X chromosome at position Xq11.1.

### Pathology
Mutations in the ARHGEF9 gene have been associated with various neurological disorders, including intellectual disability, epilepsy, and autism spectrum disorder.

### Function
The ARHGEF9 gene encodes for a protein called collybistin, which plays a crucial role in the functioning of inhibitory synapses in the brain. Specifically, collybistin regulates the clustering of receptors involved in the transmission of inhibitory signals between neurons.

### External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 23229
- Genomic Location: Xq11.1
- HGNC ID: 18747
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 23229
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000129991
- OMIM ID: 300429
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9Y6R0
- Aliases: KIAA0769; NET1; OPHN5

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.327delG, p.Glu110Lysfs*4 - rs587780015
- c.1120C>T, p.Arg374Cys - rs121917987
- c.699+2T>C - rs201907272

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Currently no somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for ARHGEF9.

### Related Disease
Mutations in the ARHGEF9 gene have been associated with various neurological disorders, including:
- X-linked intellectual disability (XLID) 
- Epileptic Encephalopathy with Continuous Spike-and-Wave during Sleep (CSWS)
- Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for genetic disorders caused by mutations in the ARHGEF9 gene. Treatment options for these disorders are typically focused on managing symptoms, which may include medication, therapy, and other supportive measures. Prognosis for these disorders can vary widely depending on the severity and specific symptoms of each condition.

### Drug Response
Currently, there are no drugs specifically targeted at treating disorders caused by mutations in the ARHGEF9 gene.

### Related Papers
- Subject: "Mutations in ARHGEF9 Disrupt Dendritic Spine Morphogenesis and Cause Neurological Disorders"
- Author(s): Kosuke Nobuta et al.
- DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2447-19.2020

- Subject: "De novo and inherited TCF20 pathogenic variants are associated with intellectual disability, dysmorphic features, hypotonia, and neurological impairments with similarities to Smith–Magenis syndrome"
- Author(s): Jennifer Mendelsohn et al.
- DOI: 10.1038/s41436-020-0931-5

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**