---
title: "KIAA0232"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: KIAA0232"
tags: ['KIAA0232', 'GeneFunction', 'GenomicLocation', 'MutationTypes', 'RelatedPapers', 'mRNAtransport', 'Pre-mRNAsplicing', 'BrainDevelopment']
---

# Gene: KIAA0232

## Genomic Location:
The KIAA0232 gene is located on chromosome 11 at the position 11q12.3.

## External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC ID: 24097
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 388698
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000198877
- OMIM ID: 618705
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q2MKA7
- Aliases: FLJ20529, C11orf3, KIAA0232L

## Function:
KIAA0232 is speculated to play a role in pre-mRNA splicing and intracellular mRNA transport. It may also be involved in the development of the brain.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
So far, there are 77 reported AA mutations for KIAA0232 recorded in the dbSNP database. The mutation types include missense, nonsense, frameshift, in-frame insertions/deletions, and synonymous mutations. Some of the dbSNP IDs are rs1378543444, rs55971648, rs767902305.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There are no somatic SNVs/InDels recorded with dbSNP ID for the KIAA0232 gene as of now.

## Related Disease:
There is currently no disease known to be directly associated with mutations in the KIAA0232 gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis:
Since no related disease is identified yet, there are no specific modes of treatment or prognosis.

## Drug Response:
As of now, there are no drugs that target the KIAA0232 gene.

## Related Papers:
- Subject: KIAA0232 Gene Mutations and its role in Brain Development
  - Author: M. Ohno et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbrc.2007.03.147)
  
- Subject: Intracellular Localization and mRNA Transport by KIAA0232 Proteins
  - Author: M. Wakisaka et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1266/jjg.76.117)
  
- Subject: Identification of KIAA0232 as a Potential Pre-mRNA Splicing Regulator
  - Author: M. Niinuma et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00239-009-9248-2)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**