---
title: "CHRNA3"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information Analysis: CHRNA3"
tags: ['GeneCHRNA3', 'NicotinicAcetylcholineReceptor', 'Polymorphisms', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'LungCancer', 'PersonalizedMedicine']
---

# Gene Information Analysis: CHRNA3

## Basic Information
- **Gene**: CHRNA3 (cholinergic receptor nicotinic alpha 3 subunit)
- **Function**: The gene encodes for a subunit of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, which is involved in neurotransmission and plays a role in various physiological and behavioral processes such as addiction, cognition, and mood control.
- **External IDs**:
    - HGNC: 1915
    - NCBI Entrez: 1138
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000189141
    - OMIM: 118505
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P32297
- **Genomic Location**: Chromosome 15q24-25
- **Aliases**:   
    - NACHRA3
    - cholinergic receptor, nicotinic, alpha 3

## Mutations and Polymorphisms
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID**:  
    - rs1051730: p.Ser398= (synonymous variant)
    - rs6495309: p.Pro175= (synonymous variant)
    - rs8192475: p.Ser34= (synonymous variant)
    - rs6495308: p.Glu40Asp (missense variant)
    - rs12914385: p.Ile546Val (missense variant)
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**:
    - rs7164723: p.Asn417Ser (missense variant)
    - rs3841324: p.Arg37Lys (missense variant)

## Related Diseases
- Polymorphisms and mutations in CHRNA3 have been associated with various diseases and conditions such as:
    - Lung cancer
    - Nicotine dependence
    - Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
    - Increased risk of Alzheimer's disease and cognitive decline in older adults.
    
## Treatment and Prognosis
- Targeting CHRNA3 and its signaling pathway can be a potential therapeutic strategy for treating various diseases such as nicotine addiction and lung cancer. However, treatment options and prognosis depend on the specific disease and its severity.
- Individuals with specific CHRNA3 variants may have increased risk of developing certain diseases, and may benefit from personalized preventive measures and early screening.

## Drug Response
- CHRNA3 variants have also been associated with variations in response to pharmacological treatments such as nicotine replacement therapy and antidepressant drugs.

## Related Papers
- Subject: "Association of CHRNA3 Polymorphisms with the Risk of Lung Cancer in the Population of West Siberia"
    - Author: Sidorenkov O, Korytina G, Shestakova E, et al.
    - DOI: 10.3390/genes8010002
- Subject: "Genetic Variants in CHRNA3 and CFH Predict Age-Related Macular Degeneration in Chinese: A Case-Control Study and Meta-Analysis"
    - Author: Wang Y, Meng D, Zhang Y, et al.
    - DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-16538
- Subject: "Variation in CHRNA3 influences response to smoking cessation medications"
    - Author: McCarthy DE, Jackson K, et al.
    - DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2017.01.001

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**