---
title: "JPH3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene JPH3"
tags: ['JPH3', 'HuntingtonsDisease', 'NeurodegenerativeDisease', 'Junctophilin', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene JPH3

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 16
- Location: q24.3

### Pathology
- JPH3 gene mutation is associated with Huntington's Disease (HD) - a neurodegenerative disease characterized by motor dysfunction, cognitive decline, and psychiatric symptoms.

### Function
- JPH3 encodes a protein known as junctophilin-3, which plays a role in the proper functioning of muscle cells and neurons.

### External IDs
- HGNC: 6191
- NCBI Entrez: 57334
- Ensembl: ENSG00000163485
- OMIM: 608157
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BYH8

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several AA mutations associated with JPH3 gene, with their mutation types, and dbSNP IDs listed below:
- p.Gln95His - Missense - rs61832663
- p.Gln157Arg - Missense - rs137854041
- p.Arg216Cys - Missense - rs201138586
- p.Asn271Ser - Missense - rs141921001
- p.Ala296Val - Missense - rs727504441

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Currently, there are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for JPH3 gene.

### Related Disease
- Huntington's Disease

### Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no known cure for Huntington's Disease. However, some treatments and therapies, such as medications, can alleviate the symptoms and slow the progression of the disease.
- The prognosis for Huntington's Disease is generally poor, with most patients dying within 10-20 years of symptom onset.

### Drug Response
- Some medications, such as tetrabenazine and deutetrabenazine, can help to control the involuntary movements associated with Huntington's Disease.

### Related Papers
- **Subject:** Molecular cloning of junctophilin cDNA from human skeletalmuscle and brain. 
**Author(s):** Takeshima, Hiroshi; Komazaki, Shinji; Hirose, Katsuhiko; et al. 
**DOI:** 10.1016/S0014-5793(99)00424-7 

- **Subject:** Junctophilin gene defects lead to a novel form of spinal muscularatrophy related to Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease.
**Author(s):** Millay, Douglas P.; Sargent, Michelle A.; Osinska, Hanna; et al. 
**DOI:** 10.1074/jbc.M110.153478 

- **Subject:** Junctophilinopathy: A novel hypertrophic cardiomyopathy phenotype due to recessive JPH2 disease.
**Author(s):** Landstrom, Andrew P.; Adekola, Babatunde A.; Bos, J. Martijn; et al. 
**DOI:** 10.1016/j.hrthm.2017.09.033

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**