---
title: "GPR179"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene GPR179"
tags: ['GeneGPR179', 'CSNB1F', 'Retina', 'VisualSignalTransmission', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'VisualAids']
---

# Information about Gene GPR179

## Gene Position
Gene GPR179 is located on the long arm of the human chromosome 2 (2q37.3).

## Pathology
Mutations in the GPR179 gene are associated with congenital stationary night blindness type 1F (CSNB1F), which is a rare genetic disorder characterized by impaired vision in low light conditions.

## Function
The GPR179 gene encodes for a protein known as GPR179, which is a G protein-coupled receptor that is mainly expressed in the retina of the eye. GPR179 plays a critical role in the transmission of visual signals from photoreceptor cells to bipolar cells in the retina, which is essential for normal vision.

## External IDs
- Gene ID: 84059
- Genomic location: 2q37.3
- Aliases: G protein-coupled receptor 179, GPR179

## External Sites
- HGNC: 17021
- NCBI Entrez: 84059
- Ensembl: ENSG00000184691
- OMIM: 614565
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8TDU6

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several reported mutations for the GPR179 gene that are associated with CSNB1F. The following is a list of some of these mutations with their mutation type and dbSNP ID:
- c.2128T>C (p.Leu710Pro) - rs1064792452
- c.3619C>T (p.Arg1207Cys) - rs138999607
- c.1675C>T (p.Arg559Ter) - rs374071433
- c.1151-2A>G (splice site mutation) - rs1555258802

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic SNVs or InDels for the GPR179 gene.

## Related Disease
As previously mentioned, mutations in the GPR179 gene are associated with congenital stationary night blindness type 1F (CSNB1F), which is a rare genetic disorder characterized by impaired vision in low light conditions.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no known cure for CSNB1F and treatment is mainly symptomatic, focusing on improving visual acuity and reducing symptoms. Patients may benefit from visual aids, such as glasses or contact lenses, and bright light therapy. The prognosis of CSNB1F varies depending on the severity of the condition and the individual case.

## Drug Response
Currently, there are no known drugs specifically targeting the dysfunctions caused by GPR179 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Author Name: Peachey, N. S.
  - DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0053159
- Author Name: Zeitz, C.
  - DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2007.00975.x
- Author Name: Audo, I.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.06.008

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**