---
title: "YBX2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: YBX2"
tags: ['YBX2', 'Chromosome17', 'Cancer', 'TranscriptionalRegulation', 'RNAStabilization', 'GeneticInformation', 'ProteinEncoding', 'BiologicalFunction']
---

# Gene Information: YBX2
## Genetic Position
- YBX2 is located on chromosome 17 at the genomic position 17q21.32.
## Pathology
- There is limited information available on the pathology related to YBX2. However, a few studies have suggested the involvement of YBX2 in various types of cancers, including gastric cancer and liver cancer.
## Function
- YBX2 is known to encode a protein that belongs to the Y-box binding protein family. This protein plays a crucial role in various cellular processes, such as transcriptional regulation, RNA splicing, and mRNA stabilization.
## External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs for YBX2 include: HGNC: 27008, NCBI Entrez: 64327, Ensembl: ENSG00000117744, OMIM: 610179, and UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y2T1.
- Aliases for YBX2 include: YB-2, and YBOX2.
## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- There are currently no reported AA mutations for YBX2 in the dbSNP database.
## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for YBX2 in the dbSNP database.
## Related disease
- Limited studies have suggested the involvement of YBX2 in various types of cancers, including gastric cancer and liver cancer.
## Treatment and prognosis
- The treatment and prognosis of YBX2-related diseases have not been clearly established yet due to limited knowledge about this gene's pathology and function.
## Drug response
- There has been no information reported regarding drug response related to YBX2.
## Related Papers
- Sun L, et al. MicroRNA-490-5p inhibits proliferation of bladder cancer by targeting c-Fos. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2018 May 10;499(3):702-709. PMID: 29588046.
- Zhou B, et al. LncRNA LOXL1-AS1 promotes malignancy of ovarian cancer through modulation of miR-376c and activation of FoxM1 pathway. J Ovarian Res. 2019 Nov 21;12(1):118. PMID: 31752853.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**