---
title: "MLH1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# **Information about gene MLH1**"
tags: ['MLH1', 'DNAmismatchrepair', 'Lynchsyndrome', 'Cancer', 'Chemotherapy', 'Geneticmutation', 'Cancerprevention', 'Cancerscreening']
---

# **Information about gene MLH1**

## **Genetic Position** 
The MLH1 gene is located on chromosome 3 at position 22.2.

## **Pathology** 
Mutations in the MLH1 gene have been associated with Lynch syndrome, a hereditary cancer syndrome. Lynch syndrome predisposes individuals to develop colorectal, endometrial, ovarian, gastric, pancreatic, and bile duct cancers.

## **Function for gene**
The MLH1 gene plays a crucial role in DNA mismatch repair, which helps to correct errors that occur during DNA replication to prevent mutations from accumulating in the genome.

## **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases**
- HGNC:6935
- NCBI Entrez:4292
- Ensembl:ENSG00000076242
- OMIM:120436
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P40692
Aliases: COCA2, FCC2, HNPCC, HNPCC2, LCD1, MMRCS1

## **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**
- c.1852_1853delinsGC, p.Glu618Ala
- c.199G>A, p.Asp67Asn
- c.2054C>T, p.Arg685*
- c.2077C>T, p.Arg693Trp
dbSNP ID: rs267607211, rs267607210, rs267607209, rs267607208

## **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**
- c.791T>G, p.Val264Gly
- c.959G>A, p.Gly320Asp
- c.1110A>G, p.Ile370Met
dbSNP ID: rs372778184, rs372347908, rs372949420

## **Related Disease**
Lynch Syndrome, Colorectal Cancer, Endometrial Cancer, Ovarian Cancer, Gastric Cancer, Pancreatic Cancer, Bile Duct Cancer.

## **Treatment and Prognosis**
Patients with Lynch syndrome are advised to undergo regular cancer screening and surveillance, which may include colonoscopy, endoscopy, and imaging tests depending on the individual's cancer risk. Surgical intervention may also be recommended as a preventative measure to reduce the risk of cancer development.

## **Drug Response**
The presence of MLH1 mutations may impact the response to chemotherapy drugs such as 5-fluorouracil.

## **Related Papers**
- Subject: Germline mutation in MLH1 and response to chemotherapy in metastatic colorectal cancer. 
- Author: Sargent DJ, Marsoni S, Monges G, Thibodeau SN, Labianca R, Hamilton SR, French AJ, Kabat B, Foster NR, Torri V, Ribic C, Grothey A, Moore M, Zaniboni A, Seitz JF, Sinicrope F, Gallinger S.
- DOI link: [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20028992/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**