---
title: "NLGN2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene NLGN2"
tags: ['NLGN2', 'SynapseFormation', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'Schizophrenia', 'ADHD', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene NLGN2

## Gene Information
NLGN2 is a gene located on chromosome 17q21.33. It is also known by its aliases, including NL3, KIAA1260, and Neuroligin-2. NLGN2 encodes for a protein that is part of the neuroligin family, and has a role in synapse formation and function. 

## Function
NLGN2 is involved in the formation and function of synapses, which are the connections between neurons in the brain. It is responsible for connecting the pre-synaptic neuron to the post-synaptic neuron, resulting in signal transmission between the two neurons.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 15952
- NCBI Entrez: 57502
- Ensembl: ENSG00000131122
- OMIM: 608150
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NFZ4

## Mutation Information
The mutations identified in NLGN2 gene are:
- No missense or truncating mutations were identified for NLGN2 gene. 
- Fewer common variants of NLGN2 associated with neurological disorders.
- Few structural variants such as C17orf69–NLGN2 fusion identified in human breast cancer.

## Related Diseases
NLGN2 has been implicated in several neurological disorders, including Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), schizophrenia, and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there are no specific treatments available for NLGN2-associated disorders. However, potential treatment options may involve modulating the NLGN2 protein's function or targeting downstream pathways affected by abnormal NLGN2 expression.

## Drug Response
No drug specifically targets NLGN2. However, some drugs like Risperidone have been shown to improve ASD behaviors potentially by modulating NLGN levels in the brain.

## Related Papers
- Sudhof, T.C. (2008). Neurolins and neurexins link synaptic function to cognitive disease. Nature, 455(7215), 903–911. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature07456)
- Arons, M.H., Thynne, C.J., Grabrucker, A.M., Li, D., Schoen, M., Cheyne, J.E., Boeckers, T.M., Montgomery, J.M., Garner, C.C., Coley, A.A., et al. (2012). Autism-associated mutations in ProSAP2/Shank3 impair synaptic transmission and neurexin-neuroligin-mediated transsynaptic signaling. J Neurosci, 32(44), 14966–14978. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2215-12.2012)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**