---
title: "APP"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene APP"
tags: ['APPgene', 'Alzheimersdisease', 'Amyloidbeta', 'Missensemutation', 'Neurodegeneration', 'Neprilysin', 'Genetics', 'Prognosis']
---

## Information about Gene APP

### Genetic Position
The gene APP (amyloid beta precursor protein) is located on the long arm of chromosome 21 (21q21.3).

### Pathology
The APP gene plays a critical role in the production of amyloid beta, a protein that accumulates in the brains of individuals with Alzheimer's disease. Mutations in the APP gene can lead to a higher production of amyloid beta, which can result in the early onset of Alzheimer's disease.

### Function
The APP gene encodes a protein called amyloid precursor protein (APP), which is involved in the development and maintenance of the nervous system. It is a transmembrane glycoprotein that can be processed to generate multiple peptides, including amyloid beta, which plays an important role in cellular signaling in the brain.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 620
- NCBI Entrez: 351
- Ensembl: ENSG00000142192
- OMIM: 104760
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P05067
- Aliases: ABETA, AD1, PN-II, APP4, CVAP, PROTEIN-APP, ALPHA-S, ABPP, CSPG2

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- V717I - Missense mutation - rs63750847
- E280A - Missense mutation - rs63751344
- A673T - Missense mutation - rs1491942
- E693G - Missense mutation - rs201778617
- T714A - Missense mutation - rs63750506

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Not applicable

### Related Disease
Alzheimer's disease, cerebral amyloid angiopathy

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for Alzheimer's disease, but some medications can help manage symptoms. The prognosis for individuals with Alzheimer's disease varies, and it ultimately depends on various factors, such as the stage of the disease and the overall health of the individual.

### Drug Response
Currently, there are no drugs that can cure or halt the progression of Alzheimer's disease. However, some medications can help manage symptoms such as memory loss and cognitive decline.

### Related Papers
- Liu Y, Studzinski CM, Beckett TL, Murphy MP, Klein RL, Hersh LB, Ashe KH, Duff K, et al. (November 2009). "Expression of neprilysin in skeletal muscle reduces amyloid burden in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer disease". Molecular Therapy 17 (8): 1381–6. 
- Giri M, Zhang M, Lü Y (October 2016). "Genetics of Alzheimer's disease: an update". Molecular Neurodegeneration 11 (1): 54.
- Goate AM, Chartier-Harlin MC, Mullan M, Brown J, Crawford F, Fidani L, et al. (1991). "Segregation of a missense mutation in the amyloid precursor protein gene with familial Alzheimer's disease". Nature. 349 (6311): 704–6.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**