---
title: "HDLBP"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene HDLBP"
tags: ['HDLBP', 'LipidMetabolism', 'GeneExpression', 'Cancer', 'CholesterolTransport', 'MetabolicDisorders', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Information about gene HDLBP

### Genetic Position
HDLBP (High-Density Lipoprotein Binding Protein) gene is located on the chromosome 2 at the region 2q37.3.

### Pathology
HDLBP gene is not known to be associated with any significant disease or pathological state. However, studies have indicated that the gene may be involved in the development of cancers, such as lung cancer, and may also have a role in the regulation of lipid metabolism.

### Function
The HDLBP gene encodes a protein that binds to high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and is involved in the regulation of cholesterol and lipid transport. The protein is also believed to have a role in the regulation of gene expression and may interact with other cellular proteins involved in signal transduction pathways.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 4903
- Entrez Gene ID: 3068
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000137845
- OMIM ID: 143861
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q14542
- Aliases: DCA1, HBP, HuR, HuR-alpha

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- No mutation has been identified in the HDLBP gene to-date.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No documented somatic mutations are available in dbSNP related to HDLBP gene.

### Related Disease
HDLBP gene is not known to have any disease-associated mutations. However, studies suggest that HDLBP gene may be associated with cancers such as lung cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There are no targeted treatments available for HDLBP gene as it is not directly involved in any disease or pathology. However, the regulation of HDLBP gene expression may be a potential therapeutic target for metabolic disorders. The prognosis of any disease caused by HDLBP gene is not known as it is not a targeted gene for any specific disease mutations.

### Drug Response
There are no known drugs available that target HDLBP gene directly. Therefore, there is no known response of HDLBP to any specific drug treatment.

### Related papers
- Subject: The role of HDLBP in regulating lipid metabolism
  - Author: Xu Z, Huang Y, Mao Z, Zhang S
  - DOI: 10.1186/s13578-020-00434-2
- Subject: The role of HDLBP in cancer development
  - Author: Li T, Qian C, Jiang X, Wu Y
  - DOI: 10.2147/CMAR.S209694

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**