---
title: "MTNR1B"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: MTNR1B"
tags: ['MTNR1B', 'Type2Diabetes', 'InsulinSecretion', 'MelatoninReceptor', 'GeneticVariations', 'DrugResponse', 'DiabetesManagement', 'MedicalResearch']
---

## Gene: MTNR1B

### Genetic Position
MTNR1B is a gene localized on the long arm of chromosome 11, specifically at the position 11q21-q22.

### Pathology
Variations in this gene are associated with the impairment of insulin secretion and an increased risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus.

### Function for gene
MTNR1B encodes the melatonin receptor 1B, which is expressed in multiple tissues, including pancreatic islet cells. It regulates blood glucose homeostasis by affecting insulin secretion, synthesis, and glucose-induced insulin release.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 7458
- NCBI Entrez: 4549
- Ensembl: ENSG00000172333
- OMIM: 601713
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96RI8

Aliases: MT2, HYPRJ, MEL1B

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg240His (rs10830963)
- p.Ser231Cys (rs138715366)
- p.Pro321Ser (rs61738184)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no available information on somatic SNVs/InDels of MTNR1B indexed in dbSNP.

### Related Diseases
Variations in MTNR1B are associated with increased susceptibility to type 2 diabetes mellitus.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for diabetes, but it can be managed with a healthy lifestyle, diet, medication, and regular medical check-up. Early diagnosis and prompt treatment are essential to avoid or reduce complications in patients with diabetes.

### Drug Response
Studies have suggested that MTNR1B variants could influence the response to anti-diabetic drugs such as metformin and sulfonylureas, but more research is needed.

### Related Papers
- Prokopenko, I., Langenberg, C., Florez, J. C., Saxena, R., Soranzo, N., Thorleifsson, G., ... & Hattersley, A. T. (2009). Variants in MTNR1B influence fasting glucose levels. Nature genetics, 41(1), 77-81. doi: [10.1038/ng.290](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.290))
- Lyssenko, V., Nagorny, C. L., Erdos, M. R., Wierup, N., Jonsson, A., Spégel, P., ... & Smiley, R. M. (2009). Common variant in MTNR1B associated with increased risk of type 2 diabetes and impaired early insulin secretion. Nature genetics, 41(1), 82-88. doi: [10.1038/ng.288](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.288))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**