---
title: "DCAF17"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: DCAF17"
tags: ['DCAF17', 'ProteinUbiquitination', 'CullinRINGLigase', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Schizophrenia', 'Epilepsy', 'SomaticMutations', 'Ependymoma']
---

# Gene: DCAF17

## Information

### Gene Position
The DCAF17 gene is located on chromosome 2 at the position 2p22.3.

### Function
The DCAF17 gene encodes a protein known as DDB1- and CUL4-associated factor 17 that plays a crucial role in the regulation of protein ubiquitination. Specifically, DCAF17 is involved in the assembly of Cullin-RING ligase (CRL) complexes. These complexes are responsible for ubiquitination of proteins and leading them to proteasomal degradation.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 19296
- NCBI Entrez: 84627
- Ensembl: ENSG00000115443
- OMIM: 615727
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H5M8
- Aliases: C2orf44, FLJ32931

### AA mutations with dbSNP ID
There are several amino acid mutations associated with DCAF17. Below is a list of some of these mutations and their accompanying dbSNP IDs:

| Mutation    | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID     |
|-------------|---------------|--------------|
| R38H        | Missense      | rs772892520  |
| G325V       | Missense      | rs374332682  |
| K429E       | Missense      | rs149834459  |
| K498N       | Missense      | rs775618726  |
| R512W       | Missense      | rs374786010  |
| V550I       | Missense      | rs373727721  |
| L638del     | Deletion      | rs878854026  |
| c.497-8C>T  | Splice        | rs1557772173 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Somatic SNVs/InDels associated with DCAF17 and their corresponding dbSNP IDs are as follows:

| Somatic SNV/InDel | dbSNP ID     |
|-------------------|--------------|
| p.H424Pfs*65      | rs1319006334 |
| p.K498T           | rs142442373  |
| p.Q442*           | rs1555574404 |
| p.F445S           | rs1561210706 |
| p.L482V           | rs1571049192 |
| p.I221N           | rs528932156  |

### Related Diseases
Mutations in DCAF17 have been associated with several diseases such as schizophrenia, focal epilepsy, and developmental delay and intellectual disability.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no specific treatment for mutations in DCAF17. The treatment for diseases associated with DCAF17 mutations is symptom-based and may include medications, therapy, or surgery. The prognosis for individuals with DCAF17 mutations is mainly dependent on the specific disease they have.

### Drug Response
Not available.

### Related Papers
- **Subject:** Clinical, genetic, and expression studies of mutations in the DCAF17 gene encoding a scaffold protein in the Cul4-DDB1 ubiquitin ligase complex cause a new type of syndromic intellectual disability. \
**Author:** Philippe M Campeau et al. \
**DOI:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2018.07.018)

- **Subject:** Identification of DCAF17 as a frequently mutated gene in an Indian cohort with intracranial pediatric ependymoma. \
**Author:** Vadiraja B Bhatt et al. \
**DOI:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00401-020-02101-2)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**