---
title: "COG1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: COG1"
tags: ['COG1', 'CongenitalDisordersOfGlycosylation', 'GolgiComplex', 'MissenseVariant', 'CDG2F', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

## Gene: COG1

### Genetic Position:
- Chromosome: 17
- Location: 17q21.2

### Pathology and Function:
- COG1 (component of oligomeric golgi complex 1) gene encodes for a protein that is involved in the normal functioning of the Golgi complex in the cells. 
- It is responsible for the normal glycosylation, sorting and trafficking of proteins within the Golgi compartment.
- Abnormalities in COG1 expression or mutations can lead to congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDGs).

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 21742
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 93192
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000166791
- OMIM ID: 606979
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9H0F7
- Aliases: CG1, COG-1, DKFZp686J0569, FLJ10294

### AA Mutation list and Mutation Type (with dbSNP ID)
- p.V68E - Missense variant (dbSNP ID: rs750851063)
- p.R149W - Missense variant (dbSNP ID: rs606231472)
- p.L214P - Missense variant (dbSNP ID: rs267607085)
- p.A241P - Missense variant (dbSNP ID: rs794728026)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels (with dbSNP ID)
There are no records of somatic SNVs/InDels for COG1 gene in dbSNP database.

### Related Disease
- Congenital disorder of glycosylation 2F (CDG2F), is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in COG1 gene.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no definitive cure for CDGs caused by COG1 mutations. Treatment is primarily symptomatic and typically involves lifelong management with speech, physical and occupational therapies, and nutritional support.
- Prognosis depends on the severity of the condition and the response to treatment.

### Drug Response
No information is available regarding drug response for COG1 mutations.

### Related Papers
- Jaeken J, Carchon H, Stöckler-Ipsiroglu S, et al. (February 1997). "A novel carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome". Lancet. 349 (9059): 877. doi:10.1016/s0140-6736(97)80004-0. PMID 9100582.
- Stephen E. Gould, Huan-Chieh Chien, Kelly A. English, Ronald A. Maloche, Andréa L. Olson, David M. Jecrois, Miguel A. Magee, Erica W. Zerrad-Saadi, and Hudson H. Freeze. Phenotypic spectrum of congenital disorders of glycosylation caused by mutations in the COG1 gene.  Am J Med Genet A. 2016 Jan;170(1):97-105. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.37483. PMID: 26416220.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**