---
title: "PSAP"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: PSAP"
tags: ['PSAP', 'MetachromaticLeukodystrophy', 'LysosomalStorageDisorder', 'SaposinProteins', 'SphingolipidHydrolases', 'EnzymeReplacementTherapy', 'BoneMarrowTransplant', 'StemCellTransplant']
---

# Gene: PSAP

## Information

- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 10q22.1
- **Pathology:** PSAP mutations have been associated with Metachromatic Leukodystrophy (MLD), a rare lysosomal storage disorder characterized by the accumulation of lipids in the central and peripheral nervous systems.
- **Function:** PSAP encodes for the precursor of saposin proteins, which are activators of lysosomal sphingolipid hydrolases. They regulate the degradation of sphingolipids, which are important for maintaining the structure and function of cell membranes. Deficiency or mutation of PSAP results in the accumulation of sphingolipids in lysosomes, thereby leading to neurodegeneration.
- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 9536
    - NCBI Entrez: 5660
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000006016
    - OMIM: 176801
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P07602
- **Aliases:** SapC, SAP-3, Prosaposin
  
## Mutations

- **AA Mutation List:**

| AA Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --------- | ------------- | ------- |
| L302P | Missense | rs104894454 |
| R234fs | Frameshift | rs375042540 |
| F341C | Missense | rs113994112 |
| V364fs | Frameshift | rs80338950 |

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:**

There are currently no reported somatic mutations for PSAP in cancer.

## Related Diseases

- Metachromatic leukodystrophy

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no known cure for Metachromatic leukodystrophy, but treatment options include bone marrow or stem cell transplants, enzyme replacement therapy, and symptomatic management of the disease.

## Drug Response

There are currently no drugs specifically approved for the treatment of Metachromatic leukodystrophy. Clinical trials are ongoing to test the efficacy and safety of different therapies for the disease.

## References

- [PSAP Gene - GeneCards]([Click](https://www.genecards.org/cgi-bin/carddisp.pl?gene=PSAP))
- [Prosaposin - Genetics Home Reference]([Click](https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/PSAP))
- [Prosaposin - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot]([Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/P07602))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**