---
title: "COG4"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: COG4"
tags: ['COG4', 'CongenitalDisordersOfGlycosylation', 'NeuromuscularPhenotype', 'GolgiApparatus', 'MissenseMutation', 'CDG2', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene: COG4

### Genetic position
- COG4 gene is located on chromosome 16p11.2.

### Pathology
- Mutations in the COG4 gene have been associated with congenital disorders of glycosylation type 2 (CDG2) and neuromuscular phenotype. 

### Function
- COG4 gene encodes for a subunit of the Conserved Oligomeric Golgi (COG) complex, which is involved in the normal functioning of the Golgi apparatus.

### External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs: HGNC:23945; NCBI Entrez: 93106; Ensembl: ENSG00000188176; OMIM: 606976; UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y2W6.
- Aliases: DKFZp781N1143, FLJ20891.

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- Some of the reported mutations in the COG4 gene include:
    - p.Q252H (rs786205121): Missense mutation leading to a change from glutamine to histidine at position 252.
    - p.D648N (rs772384986): Missense mutation causing an aspartic acid to asparagine change at position 648.
    - p.W791G (rs376814948): Missense mutation resulting in a tryptophan to glycine change at position 791.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are reported somatic SNVs/InDels in the COG4 gene, but the dbSNP IDs are not available.

### Related disease
- Mutations in the COG4 gene have been associated with congenital disorders of glycosylation type 2 (CDG2) and neuromuscular phenotype.

### Treatment and prognosis
- The treatment and prognosis of patients with mutated COG4 gene depend on the severity of the symptoms.

### Drug response
- Information on drug response related to COG4 gene is not available.

### Related papers
- [Adamowicz et al. 2016]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27328888/))
- [Cantagrel et al. 2010]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20004762/))
- [Freeze et al. 2014]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24412201/))
- [Kodera et al. 2015]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26199312/))
- [Sethi et al. 2010]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20493479/))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**