---
title: "RBM28"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# RBM28 Gene Information"
tags: ['RBM28', 'RNA-bindingprotein', 'pre-mRNAsplicing', 'diseaseassociation', 'somaticmutations', 'treatmentoptions', 'drugresponse', 'relatedpapers']
---

# RBM28 Gene Information

## General Information
RBM28 is a human gene located on chromosome 18 at the position 18q21.1. It is also known by various aliases including HCC1, HRC1, and RNPC1. The gene encodes for RNA-binding protein, which plays a crucial role in regulating pre-mRNA splicing.

## Function of RBM28
RBM28 is an RNA-binding protein that functions in regulating pre-mRNA splicing. It specifically modulates the alternative splicing of numerous genes and is known to regulate cell proliferation, apoptosis, and differentiation. Additionally, RBM28 has been implicated in the regulation of mRNA stability, transcriptional elongation, and translation.

## External IDs and Links
- HGNC: 9824
- NCBI Entrez: 10180
- Ensembl: ENSG00000101439
- OMIM: 605956
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NWF4

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are numerous AA mutations associated with RBM28, including:
- Gln373Arg (rs150501637)
- Glu374Lys (rs374557281)
- Gly435Arg (rs779751738)
- Ser458Phe (rs1555686)

These mutations have been associated with multiple diseases such as myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), leukemia, and multiple myeloma.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are multiple somatic SNVs/InDels associated with RBM28 and these are cataloged with dbSNP ID. Some of them are:
- rs563453657
- rs141153907
- rs754176414
- rs559106696

## Related Disease
RBM28 has been associated with multiple diseases such as:
- Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)
- Leukemia
- Multiple myeloma
- Breast cancer
- Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
- Bladder cancer
- Ovarian cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are not many treatment options available that directly target RBM28. Therefore, treatment options for diseases associated with its mutation and/or dysregulation focus on treating the disease itself. The prognosis and treatment depend on the disease and the severity of the patient's condition.

## Drug Response
There are no drugs specifically designed to target RBM28 as its function is tightly regulated and essential for normal cellular function. Drugs targeting RBM28 could also potentially have adverse effects on the cellular machinery. However, research is ongoing to develop drugs that can target abnormal cellular pathways regulated by RBM28.

## Related Papers 
- **Subject:** Role of RBM28 in Cancer  
  **Author:** Yuguang Zhao, Li-Hua Zhang, and Gui-Yuan Li  
  **DOI:** 10.1016/j.bbcan.2015.02.004 

- **Subject:** Identification of Two RBM28 Target Exons by Transcriptome Sequencing Analysis of Colorectal Cancer  
  **Author:** Yasuhiro Shimizu, Takashi Kimura, Yasuhito Yuasa, Misa Nishikawa, Tetsuro Fujita, Tomonari Suematsu, Eiji Miyoshi, Satoru 									Kondo, Tomoki Todo, and Tadashi Kondo  
  **DOI:** 10.3390/cancers10120453 

- **Subject:** The RNA-binding protein RBM28 is a PAR-binding scaffold in TLR8 signaling  
  **Author:** Lauren M. Gillespie, Salim Khiar-El-Moued, William T. Paul, and Keith A. Lidke  
  **DOI:** 10.1186/s12964-019-0459-2

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**