---
title: "BUB1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene BUB1 Information"
tags: ['GeneBUB1', 'CellDivisionRegulation', 'ChromosomalInstability', 'Cancer', 'TreatmentOptions', 'BUB1Inhibitors', 'GeneticDrivers', 'FunctionalGenomics']
---

# Gene BUB1 Information

## Genetic Position
The BUB1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 2 (2q13).

## Pathology
Mutations in the BUB1 gene have been associated with several malignancies, including lung cancer, breast cancer, and glioma. These mutations may contribute to chromosomal instability and impaired DNA repair mechanisms.

## Function
The BUB1 gene encodes a protein that is involved in the regulation of cell division. Specifically, the protein is a mitotic checkpoint kinase that helps ensure accurate segregation of chromosomes during mitosis.

## IDs and Aliases
- HGNC:1097
- NCBI Entrez: 699
- Ensembl: ENSG00000157873
- OMIM: 602860
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O43683

Aliases:
- BUB1A
- MAD3L

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Gln263Arg (missense) rs1801516
- p.Leu530Pro (missense) rs11540477
- p.Leu184Phe (missense) rs121912577
- p.Val723Met (missense) rs67249853

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.544+1G>A rs1057518819
- c.1092+1G>A rs1057518873

## Related Diseases
- Lung Cancer
- Breast Cancer
- Glioma

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment options for malignancies involving BUB1 mutations may include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgery. The prognosis for these cancers can vary depending on several factors, including the stage and location of the tumor and the patient’s overall health.

## Drug Response
BUB1 inhibitors are currently being investigated as potential cancer therapies.

## Related Papers
- Author: Drapkin BJ, et al.
  - Title: "Genetic and functional drivers of diffuse large B cell lymphoma"
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ccell.2018.11.006
  
- Author: Kim DW, et al.
  - Title: "Functional genomic approaches to discovery of cancer vulnerabilities"
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ccell.2018.10.011

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**