---
title: "PPP3CA"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene PPP3CA"
tags: ['PPP3CA', 'PP2A', 'mutation', 'disease', 'treatment', 'prognosis', 'drugresponse', 'geneticinformationanalyst']
---

# Gene PPP3CA

**Function:** PPP3CA encodes for a catalytic subunit of the protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) enzyme. PPP3CA is involved in the regulation of a wide range of cellular processes including cell growth, proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. PPP3CA forms a heterotrimeric complex with a regulatory subunit and a scaffolding subunit. The complex acts on a variety of substrates including kinases, receptors, and transcriptional regulators.

**External IDs:** 
- Gene ID: 5530
- Genomic location: Chromosome 4q21.3
- Aliases: PP2CA, PPP2CA

**External Sites:**
- HGNC: 9304
- NCBI Entrez: [5530](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/5530))
- Ensembl: ENSG00000077809
- OMIM: 600590
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P36879

**AA mutations and Mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

There are various mutations that have been reported in the PPP3CA gene. Here are a few of them:

|AA mutation|Mutation type|dbSNP ID|
|-------|--------|-------|
|p.Ala235Val|Missense|rs121918043|
|p.Arg89Gln|Missense|rs193922188|
|p.Arg179Pro|Missense|rs1554408370|
|p.Arg235Gln|Missense|rs1554990707|

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

Somatic mutations in PPP3CA have been identified in various cancer types. Here are some examples of somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

|Mutation|Cancer Type|dbSNP ID|
|-------|--------|-------|
|c.1021_1022delCC|Endometrial Cancer|rs1556181696|
|c.318dupA|Colorectal Cancer|rs1554751778|
|c.764T>C|Ovarian Cancer|rs543701403|
|c.1210A>G|Lung Cancer|rs752805370|

**Related Disease:**

Mutations in PPP3CA have been associated with a variety of diseases including autism spectrum disorder, schizophrenia, and cancer.

**Treatment and Prognosis:**

Currently, there is no specific treatment available for PPP3CA mutations. Treatment for associated diseases will depend on the individual case and symptoms. Prognosis will depend on the disease and individual case.

**Drug Response:**

There is no data available on drug response of PPP3CA mutations.

**References:**

1. Lemos FOF, et al. PP2A-B’ holoenzyme substrate recognition, regulation and role in heart failure. Cellular Signalling. 2020;69:109548.
2. The Human Protein Atlas: PPP3CA. [Click](https://www.proteinatlas.org/ENSG00000077809-PPP3CA.) Accessed on 12 August 2021.
3. NCBI Gene: PPP3CA. [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/5530.) Accessed on 12 August 2021.
4. Gopalakrishnan S, et al. Association of PPP3CA polymorphisms and schizophrenia in an Indian population. Genes, Brain and Behavior. 2018;17(5):e12451.
5. Heinzen EL, et al. Tissue-specific genetic control of splicing: implications for the study of complex traits. PLoS Biology. 2008;6(12):e1.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**