---
title: "P2RX2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: P2RX2"
tags: ['P2RX2', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'ATP', 'IonChannels', 'TherapeuticTargets', 'P2XReceptorAntagonists', 'NeuropathicPain', 'ExcitabilityRegulation']
---

# Gene: P2RX2

## Genomic Position and Aliases
- **Genomic Location**: Chromosome 12q24.31
- **External sites:** 
    - HGNC: 3085
    - NCBI Entrez: 5027
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000139219
    - OMIM: 602412
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UBL9
- **Aliases**: P2X2, P2X purinoceptor 2

## Function
P2RX2 encodes a member of the P2X family of ligand-gated ion channels, which are involved in various physiological processes such as neurotransmission, inflammation, and apoptosis. Specifically, P2RX2 is involved in the regulation of the excitability of neurons in the central and peripheral nervous systems, through the binding of extracellular ATP.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No missense mutations associated with disease have been reported for P2RX2.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No known somatic mutations in P2RX2 have been reported in the literature.

## Related Disease
- P2RX2 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various neurological disorders, such as epilepsy, migraine, and chronic pain.

### References
- Burnstock, G., & Knight, G. E. (2018). Cellular distribution and functions of P2 receptor subtypes in different systems. International review of cell and molecular biology, 339, 1-98.
- Cao, D. S., Yu, S. B., & Chen, Z. (2020). P2X7 receptors in neuropathic pain. Neurological Sciences, 41(6), 1365-1371.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There are no specific treatments targeting P2RX2. However, the modulation of P2X receptors, in general, has been proposed as a potential therapeutic target for various neurological disorders.

### References
- Miller, C. M., Boucher, A. A., & Carlisle, D. L. (2020). Targeting P2X receptors as treatment for various neurological diseases. Neural Plasticity, 2020.

## Drug Response
- The potential use of P2X receptor antagonists as therapeutic agents targeting P2RX2 is an active area of research.

### References
- Burnstock, G., & Knight, G. E. (2018). Cellular distribution and functions of P2 receptor subtypes in different systems. International review of cell and molecular biology, 339, 1-98.

## Related Papers 
- Cao, D. S., Yu, S. B., & Chen, Z. (2020). P2X7 receptors in neuropathic pain. Neurological Sciences, 41(6), 1365-1371. doi: 10.1007/s10072-020-04472-8 
- Miller, C. M., Boucher, A. A., & Carlisle, D. L. (2020). Targeting P2X receptors as treatment for various neurological diseases. Neural Plasticity, 2020. doi: 10.1155/2020/8830293

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**