---
title: "SLC24A5"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SLC24A5"
tags: ['SLC24A5', 'NCKX5', 'MelaninSynthesis', 'Albinism', 'OculocutaneousAlbinism', 'IonHomeostasis', 'RetinaDevelopment', 'SkinPigmentation']
---

# Gene SLC24A5

SLC24A5 is a gene that encodes for a protein named sodium/potassium/calcium exchanger 5 (NCKX5), which plays a crucial role in maintaining the ion homeostasis in the human body. 

## Function
NCKX5 protein is involved in the maintenance of the pH balance in the melanocytes, which in turn regulates melanin synthesis, essential for skin pigmentation. It also plays a critical role in the development of the retina and brain.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 10959
- NCBI Entrez: 57140
- Ensembl: ENSG00000114585
- OMIM: 609802
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y5W5

## AA Mutation List
- rs1426654 (p.Ala111Thr)
- rs1426656 (p.Leu374Val)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
There are currently no somatic mutations associated with this gene

## Related Diseases
Mutations in the SLC24A5 gene have been associated with albinism and oculocutaneous albinism type 6.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no definitive cure for albinism presently; however, proper management can reduce the severity of symptoms. Treatment includes sun protection, the use of visual aids, and in some cases, surgery. The prognosis for individuals with albinism is usually dependent on the severity of the condition. 

## Drug Response
There is no known drug response associated with this gene.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Oculocutaneous Albinism
  - Author: King RA, Summers CG
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1161/)
- Subject: The role of SLC24A5 in melanin production
  - Author: Stokowski RP, Choate KA, Perry J, et al.
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4049309/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**