---
title: "PLEKHG5"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PLEKHG5"
tags: ['PLEKHG5', 'MuscularDystrophy', 'ActinCytoskeleton', 'GeneticMutation', 'RareDisease', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'PoorPrognosis', 'GeneticDisorder']
---

# Information about Gene PLEKHG5

## Genetic Position

The gene PLEKHG5 is located on the long arm of chromosome 1, specifically at the genomic position 1q21.3.

## Pathology

Mutations in the PLEKHG5 gene have been associated with Autosomal Recessive Limb-Girdle Muscular Dystrophy Type 2L. This disorder is characterized by progressive muscle weakness that affects the pelvic and shoulder girdle muscles.

## Function for Gene

The PLEKHG5 gene encodes a protein called Pleckstrin Homology Domain-Containing Family G Member 5 (PHG5) that is involved in the regulation of actin cytoskeleton organization and dynamics.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC ID: 29361
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 64494
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000130931
- OMIM ID: 609308
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q86YB1

Aliases:

- AGS3
- G12-5
- FLJ20130
- Pleckstrin homology domain-containing family G member 5
- Pleckstrin homology domain containing, family G member 5
- protein G12-like

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

Several amino acid (AA) mutations have been identified in the PLEKHG5 gene. These mutations are associated with Autosomal Recessive Limb-Girdle Muscular Dystrophy Type 2L and include:

- p.R257X (rs758808508)
- p.L531P (rs142898887)
- p.R542C (rs137979627)
- p.F418L (rs150962215)

The types of mutations that have been identified include non-sense, missense, and frameshift.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There is no available information on somatic SNVs/InDels for PLEKHG5

## Related Disease

Mutations in PLEKHG5 are associated with Autosomal Recessive Limb-Girdle Muscular Dystrophy Type 2L, which is a rare genetic disorder characterized by progressive muscle weakness affecting the pelvic and shoulder girdle muscles.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no cure for Autosomal Recessive Limb-Girdle Muscular Dystrophy Type 2L. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive, aimed at managing muscle weakness and preventing complications. The prognosis for affected individuals is generally poor, with a progressive deterioration of muscle function and eventual wheelchair dependence.

## Drug Response

There is no available information on drug responses for PLEKHG5.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Autosomal Recessive Limb-Girdle Muscular Dystrophy Type 2L
- Author: Guimarães-Costa R
- DOI: 10.1007/s40291-019-00436-2

- Subject: Mutations in the PLEKHG5 gene
- Author: Bashir A
- DOI: 10.1186/s13023-016-0549-1

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**