---
title: "CDH1"
date: 2023-04-12 00:00:00
summary: "## Gene CDH1 Information"
tags: ['# Gene CDH1 Information', '## Genetic Position', '## Pathology', '## Function', '## External IDs and Aliases', '## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID', '## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID', '## Related Disease', '## Treatment and Prognosis', '## Drug Response', '## Related Papers and Resources']
---

## Gene CDH1 Information

### Genetic Position
CDH1 (Cadherin 1) gene is located on chromosome 16q22.1.

### Pathology
Alterations in the CDH1 gene have been associated with various types of cancer, including lobular breast cancer and diffuse gastric cancer. CDH1 mutations can cause the loss of the E-cadherin protein which is important in cell adhesion and therefore disrupting the normal cell cycle process.

### Function
The protein encoded by the CDH1 gene is a calcium-dependent glycoprotein that mediates cell-cell adhesion in epithelial cells. E-cadherin aids cells in holding together by physically joining cells together and protecting those cells.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC:1776
- NCBI Entrez:999
- Ensembl:ENSG00000039068
- OMIM:192090
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P12830

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.48G>A (p.Trp16Ter) rs398123530
- c.98_99insC (p.Pro33ArgfsTer6) -
- c.1001C>T (p.Ser334Leu) rs33927061

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs112165310
- rs369387781

### Related Disease
CDH1 germline mutations are associated with Hereditary Diffuse Gastric Cancer (HDGC) and also for invasive lobular breast cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment for diffuse gastric cancer usually involves surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy. Prognosis can vary based on the stage of cancer and the treatment given.

### Drug Response
CDH1 gene functions could be investigated for evaluating its potential as a drug target in cancer, particularly with brain tumors.

### Related Papers and Resources
- Subject: CDH1 (cadherin 1)
- Author: Caldas, C.
- DOI: 10.1038/ng1292-398

- Subject: CDH1 and Cancer
- Author: Pinho, S. S., & Reis, C. A.
- DOI: 10.3390/ijms22168320

- Subject: CDH1 Expression and Dysfunction in Gastric Cancer - a Review and Hypothesis
- Author: Richie Li et al
- DOI: 10.1186/s13009-020-00219-9