---
title: "UGT2A1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: UGT2A1"
tags: ['UGT2A1', 'Glucuronidation', 'ProstateCancer', 'DrugMetabolism', 'Polymorphisms', 'Tamoxifen', 'Irinotecan', 'GeneticVariants']
---

# Gene: UGT2A1
### Gene function
The UGT2A1 gene encodes the enzyme UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 2 family, which catalyzes the glucuronidation of various substances, including drugs, bilirubin, and steroids. This process is important for the metabolism and elimination of many xenobiotics from the body.

### External IDs, Genomic Locations, and Aliases for Gene
- HGNC: 17307
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 11281
- Ensembl: ENSG00000197736
- OMIM: 607473
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P54850
- Genomic location: Chromosome 4q13.2

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are several reported variants and mutations in the UGT2A1 gene, including:
- rs11692021 (p.Leu48Val)
- rs11692022 (p.Arg109Cys)
- rs118203952 (p.Gln177Pro)
- rs56189998 (p.Cys340Tyr)
- rs28371725 (p.Ala411Val)
- rs11667096 (p.Ile467Val)
- rs28991068 (p.Pro483Leu)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic variants or InDels have been reported for this gene.

### Related Disease
Genetic variants in UGT2A1 have been associated with increased risk for prostate cancer. However, the exact role of UGT2A1 in prostate cancer development and progression is still being investigated.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for prostate cancer varies depending on the severity and stage of the disease. Prognosis also depends on the stage of the cancer and the response to treatment.

### Drug Response
Variants in UGT2A1 may affect drug metabolism and thereby alter drug response. For example, the efficacy and toxicity of some drugs, such as tamoxifen and irinotecan, have been shown to be affected by UGT2A1 polymorphisms.

### Related papers
- Author: Chen ZY, et al.
  - [PMID: 31208380](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31208380/))
- Author: Fischer J, et al.
  - [PMID: 31403566](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31403566/))
- Author: Little MA, et al.
  - [PMID: 29993313](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6359371/))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**