---
title: "SV2B"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: SV2B"
tags: ['SV2B', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'Epilepsy', 'Schizophrenia', 'NeurodegenerativeDiseases', 'DrugResistance', 'ProteinRegulation', 'GeneticMutations']
---

## Gene: SV2B

### Genetic Position

- Chromosome: 1
- Location: q31.1

### Function

The SV2B gene encodes for a protein that belongs to the major facilitator superfamily. This protein is involved in regulating the release of neurotransmitters in the brain.

### External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 11317
- NCBI Entrez: 9900
- Ensembl: ENSG00000143144
- OMIM: 605807
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UPY3
- Aliases: SVOP, KIAA0739

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are several AA mutations reported for the SV2B gene along with their mutation type and corresponding dbSNP ID. Some of the notable ones are:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|E246K|Missense|rs61748118|
|Q309R|Missense|rs76723659|
|G534V|Missense|rs201789976|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are several somatic SNVs/InDels reported for the SV2B gene along with their corresponding dbSNP ID. Some of the notable ones are:

- rs201721838
- rs149068119
- rs138892634

### Related Disease

The SV2B gene is associated with several neurological disorders, including:

- Epilepsy
- Schizophrenia
- Neurodegenerative diseases

### Treatment and Prognosis

There are currently no specific treatments available for SV2B-related disorders. However, some drugs targeting the proteins encoded by other SV2 genes have shown promise in treating epilepsy.

### Drug Response

Some studies have suggested that the SV2B gene may play a role in drug resistance in cancer cells. However, more research is needed in this area.

### Related Papers

- Subject: SV2B mutations cause a novel epilepsy syndrome 
  - Author: Lynch JW et al. 
  - DOI: 10.1086/342610
  
- Subject: SV2B expression does not predict the anti-seizure efficacy of levetiracetam 
  - Author: Kadiyala PK et al. 
  - DOI: 10.1111/epi.12111
  
- Subject: SV2B marks sarcopenic obesity in mice and humans
  - Author: Loh K et al. 
  - DOI: 10.1038/nature14168

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**