---
title: "MUT"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information for MUT"
tags: ['MUTgene', 'MethylmalonicAcidemia', 'Enzyme', 'MissenseMutation', 'GeneticDisorder', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Metabolism']
---

## Gene Information for MUT

### Basic Information

- **Gene Name:** MUT
- **Genomic Position:** Chromosome 6: 33119630-33155421
- **Alias:** MCCC1, MCD, MCKD, MCC1, MCCA, MUTASE

### Function for Gene

The MUT gene encodes an enzyme called methylmalonyl-CoA mutase which plays a crucial role in the breakdown of some important amino acids. The enzyme converts methylmalonyl-CoA to succinyl-CoA, which feeds into the tricarboxylic acid cycle for energy production.

### External IDs and Genomic Location

- **HGNC ID:** HGNC:7528
- **NCBI Entrez ID:** 4594
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000112226
- **OMIM ID:** 609058
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** P22033
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 6 (GRCh38): 33,119,630-33,155,421

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- **Mutation Type:** missense
- **dbSNP ID:** rs121434500
- **Amino Acid Change:** p.Arg228Cys

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There is no reported somatic mutation for MUT available in dbSNP.

### Related Disease

Methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) is a rare genetic disorder that is caused by mutations in the MUT gene. MMA is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by the accumulation of toxic levels of methylmalonic acid in the blood and tissues due to the inability to metabolize certain amino acids.

### Treatment and Prognosis

MMA can be treated through a combination of dietary changes, vitamin B12 supplementation, and medications that help to lower the levels of methylmalonic acid. The prognosis for individuals with MMA depends on the severity of the symptoms and how early the condition is diagnosed.

### Drug Response

There is limited information on drug response associated with the MUT gene.

### Related Papers

- Froese DS, Kochan G, Muniz J, et al. Structures of the human GTPase MMAA and vitamin B12-dependent methylmalonyl-CoA mutase and insight into their complex formation. J Biol Chem. 2010;285(48):38204-13. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M110.137315
- Pérez-Cerdá C, Merinero B, Desviat LR, et al. Genetic analysis of three genes causing isolated methylmalonic acidemia: identification of 21 novel allelic variants. Mol Genet Metab. 2010;99(3):299-308. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2009.11.008

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**