---
title: "UACA"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene UACA"
tags: ['GeneUACA', 'GeneFunction', 'Aliases', 'GeneticPosition', 'RelatedDisease', 'DrugResponse', 'SomaticMutations', 'RelatedPapers']
---

## Information about Gene UACA

**Genetic Position:** Chromosome 9: 13,936,089-13,961,756

**Pathology:** There is limited information on the pathology of gene UACA. 

**Function:** The exact function of gene UACA is not known, but it has been suggested to be involved in the regulation of gene expression.

**Aliases:** UACA is also known as Upstream Antisense RNA for c-MYC, USAC, or LOC389641.

**External IDs:**
- HGNC: 40687
- NCBI Entrez: 389641
- Ensembl: ENSG00000251248
- OMIM: NA
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: NA

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type:** There are currently no reported amino acid mutations for gene UACA.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for gene UACA.

**Related Disease:** There is limited information on the related disease for gene UACA.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** There is currently no information on the treatment and prognosis of gene UACA.

**Drug Response:** There is currently no information available on the drug response of gene UACA.

**Related Papers:**
1. Subject: Upstream antisense RNAs: do they regulate transcription?  
   Author: Werner, Ann C.  
   DOI: 10.1016/j.tig.2005.02.007
2. Subject: Upstream Antisense RNAs as Regulators of Gene Expression in Bacteria  
   Author: Thomason, Maureen K.  
   DOI: 10.1128/microbiolspec.VMBF-0040-2017

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**