---
title: "MSMB"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene MSMB"
tags: ['GeneMSMB', 'ProstateCancer', 'CellGrowth', 'Differentiation', 'TumorInvasion', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene MSMB

## Summary 
The gene MSMB, also known as beta-microseminoprotein, is located on chromosome 10q11.2. It encodes a protein that is involved in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation, as well as the inhibition of tumor cell invasion. Mutations in this gene have been linked to the development and progression of prostate cancer. 

## Function 
The protein coded by MSMB plays an important role in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation, particularly in prostatic tissue. It is also involved in the inhibition of tumor cell invasion. 

## External IDs and Aliases 
- HGNC: 7335
- NCBI Entrez: 4477
- Ensembl: ENSG00000107550
- OMIM: 602569
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P08118
- Aliases: PSP94, MSMBP

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP Id
- rs10993994(C;T)
- rs10993995(T;C)
- rs2070603(C;T)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
- rs61752561
- rs11568820
- rs770579405
- rs144848

## Related Disease
Mutations in MSMB have been associated with an increased risk for prostate cancer. 

## Treatment and Prognosis 
Currently, there are no proven treatments for mutations in MSMB. The prognosis for patients with prostate cancer linked to this gene is similar to other forms of the disease.

## Drug Response 
There is currently no known drug response specific to MSMB-related prostate cancer. 

### References 
- Melloni GEM, Szyf M (2015) [Molecular mechanisms of prostate cancer prevention by isothiocyanates and selenium:  a role for epigenetics](https://doi.org/10.2147/OTT.S38123).) OncoTargets and Therapy.
- Thomas G, Jacobs KB, Yeager M, et al. (2008) [Multiple loci identified in a genome-wide association study of prostate cancer](https://doi.org/10.1038/nrg2341).) Nat Genet.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**