---
title: "CRHR2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# CRHR2 Gene Information"
tags: ['CRHR2', 'GeneFunction', 'GenomicLocation', 'MutationList', 'RelatedDiseases', 'DrugResponse', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# CRHR2 Gene Information

## Gene Function
The CRHR2 gene encodes for the corticotrophin-releasing hormone receptor 2, which is a G protein-coupled receptor that binds to corticotrophin-releasing hormone. This hormone is involved in stress response regulation, and the CRHR2 protein plays a role in modulating the physiological response to stress.

## External IDs and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 2369
- NCBI Entrez: 1394
- Ensembl: ENSG00000101602
- OMIM: 602579
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P41594

The CRHR2 gene is located on chromosome 7 at position q31.3.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.825C>A (p.Pro275Thr) rs77964376
- c.897C>T (p.Asn299=)
- c.1210C>T (p.Arg404Cys) rs140921270
- c.1243A>G (p.Ile415Val) rs11553551

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic mutations reported for the CRHR2 gene, but none have been assigned dbSNP IDs.

## Related Diseases
Abnormalities in the CRHR2 gene have been implicated in a range of disorders such as anxiety disorders, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and addiction.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Therapeutic drugs targeting the CRHR2 receptor are currently being developed for psychiatric disorders such as anxiety and depression. Prognosis varies depending on the specific disorder and the presence of any comorbidities.

## Drug Response
Studies have shown that selective CRHR2 antagonists have anxiolytic and antidepressant effects.

## Related Papers and DOI Links
- Binder, E. B. (2009). The Role of CRH Receptors and Their Antagonists in the Treatment of Anxiety and Depression. Handbook of Experimental Pharmacology, 205, 397–414. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-88455-3_20.)
- Ising, M., & Holsboer, F. (2007). Genetics of stress response and stress-related disorders. Dialogues in Clinical Neuroscience, 9(4), 312–328. [Click](https://doi.org/10.31887/dcns.2007.9.4/mising.) 
- Zobel, A. W., Nickel, T., Kunzel, H. E., Ackl, N., Sonntag, A., Ising, M., & Holsboer, F. (2000). Effects of the high-affinity corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor 1 antagonist R121919 in major depression: the first 20 patients treated. Journal of Psychiatric Research, 34(3), 171–181. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/s0022-3956(00)00016-2.)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**