---
title: "PCM1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: PCM1 "
tags: ['PCM1', 'MicrotubuleOrganizingCenter', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'PeriventricularNodularHeterotopia', 'MillerDiekerSyndrome', 'EmeryDreifussMuscularDystrophy', 'SymptomaticTreatment']
---

# Gene: PCM1 

## Gene Function
PCM1 encodes a protein that is localized to the microtubule organizing center (MTOC). It is involved in various cellular processes such as cell division, cell migration, and cilia assembly. It also acts as a scaffold protein, regulating the assembly of other proteins at the MTOC.

## External IDs, Genomic Location, and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 8766
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 5108
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000143768
- OMIM ID: 601507
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q15154
- Genomic location: Chromosome 8q21.13
- Aliases: pericentriolar material 1, HsT16930

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Phe760Leu (rs199846423): missense mutation
- p.Arg1154* (rs786200996): nonsense mutation
- p.Asp929Val (rs587783146): missense mutation

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs201883732
- rs200507338
- rs576211364

## Related Diseases
Mutations in PCM1 have been attributed to several disorders including:
- Choroid plexus carcinoma
- Spinocerebellar ataxia-48 (SCA48)
- Periventricular nodular heterotopia (PVNH)
- Microcephaly with or without chorioretinopathy, lymphedema, or mental retardation syndrome (MCLMR)
- Miller-Dieker syndrome (MDS)
- Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD)

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment for PCM1-associated disorders. Treatment is typically symptomatic, focusing on management of the specific symptoms associated with the disorder. Prognosis varies depending on the specific disorder and the severity of the associated symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is currently no available information on drug response for PCM1-associated disorders.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Novel missense variant in the PCM1 gene underlies severe myoclonic epilepsy of infancy
  - Author: Talvik, Inga et al.
  - DOI: 10.1111/cge.14088

- Subject: A splice variant in GPSM2 underlies familial classic pachygyria
  - Author: Stittrich, Anna-Barbara et al.
  - DOI: 10.1038/ng.2778

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**