---
title: "NDUFB9"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: NDUFB9"
tags: ['NDUFB9', 'MitochondrialComplexIDeficiency', 'RespiratoryChain', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'MitochondrialDisorders', 'TreatmentStrategies', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: NDUFB9

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 10
- Location: 10q24.32

## Pathology
NDUFB9 gene mutations have been implicated in mitochondrial complex I deficiency, a condition characterized by a defect in the respiratory chain enzyme complex I resulting in impaired mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and ATP production.

## Function
The NDUFB9 gene encodes a subunit of the mitochondrial membrane respiratory chain NADH dehydrogenase (complex I), which plays a crucial role in the generation of ATP in eukaryotic cells.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 7688
- NCBI Entrez: 4702
- Ensembl: ENSG00000196377
- OMIM: 602137
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O94804

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Leu17Ser (missense mutation) - rs148838058
- p.Gln95Ter (nonsense mutation) - rs758811398

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for this gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the NDUFB9 gene have been associated with mitochondrial complex I deficiency, which manifests with a variety of clinical symptoms such as Leigh syndrome, encephalopathy, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and myopathy.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for mitochondrial complex I deficiency. Treatment strategies include supportive care and administration of cofactors such as thiamine, riboflavin, and coenzyme Q10 to potentially improve mitochondrial function. Prognosis is typically poor for severe forms of the disease.

## Drug Response
There is currently no specific drug available for the treatment of mitochondrial complex I deficiency.

## Related Papers
- Abbasi, M. M., Amiri, M. S., Fattahi, Z., Ghaedi, H., & Banihosseini, S. S. (2019). Novel mutations in mitochondrial complex I ND-us family genes: ND1, ND2, ND3, ND4L, ND5, and ND6 in patients with suspected mitochondrial disorders. Clinical neurology and neurosurgery, 182, 93-99. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clineuro.2019.05.005)
- Haack, T. B., Kopajtich, R., Freisinger, P., Wieland, T., Rorbach, J., Nicholls, T. J., ... & Distelmaier, F. (2013). Distinct clinical and biochemical features associated with WARS2, COX10 and NDUFAF6 disease-causing variants in adult French-Canadian individuals with isolated complex V deficiency. Human molecular genetics, 22(5), 906-915. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/hmg/dds509) 
- Leber, S. M., Gröbner, S., & Doerrier, C. (2019). The Handbook: Protocols for Standardized Mitochondrial Respirometry Experiments. Springer Nature. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-11775-7)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**