---
title: "SFTPD"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene SFTPD"
tags: ['SFTPD', 'InterstitialLungDisease', 'SurfactantProteinD', 'InnateImmunity', 'Polymorphisms', 'RespiratoryDistressSyndrome', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'PulmonarySurfactant']
---

# Information about gene SFTPD

## Genetic Position
- SFTPD gene is located on Chromosome 10 in humans.
- The genomic location of this gene is 10q22.2.

## Pathology
- SFTPD gene is known to be associated with interstitial lung disease (ILD). 
- Polymorphisms in this gene have also been linked with respiratory distress syndrome in premature infants.

## Function 
- SFTPD (also known as Surfactant protein-D) is a protein encoded by the SFTPD gene.
- It belongs to the collectin family of proteins that are involved in host defense mechanisms and innate immunity.
- SFTPD plays a role in pulmonary surfactant homeostasis by regulating the composition and metabolism of surfactant lipids.
- It also plays a role in modulating the immune response in the lungs.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 10690 
- NCBI Entrez: 6441 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000156514
- OMIM: 178635
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P35247
- Aliases: PSP-D, SFTP4, SP-D

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Asp223Asn (rs7219170)
- p.Asp325Asn (rs2126945)
- p.Ser228Leu (rs28364072)

## somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.983T>C (rs113645057)
- c.905C>T (rs116854424)
- c.710G>A (rs116797585)

## Related Disease
- Interstitial lung disease (ILD)
- Respiratory distress syndrome in premature infants

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There are currently no specific treatments for SFTPD-associated ILD. 
- Treatment is usually symptomatic and supportive.
- The prognosis of SFTPD-associated ILD varies depending on the severity and progression of the disease.

## Drug Response
- There is limited information on drug response in SFTPD-associated ILD.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Genetics of pulmonary surfactant. 
  - Author: Whitsett JA and Wert SE. 
  - DOI: 10.1146/annurev.physiol.67.040104.131130 
- Subject: Genetics of Interstitial Lung Disease (ILD) 
  - Author: Galvin L and Pandit L 
  - DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-64596-0_12 
- Subject: Surfactant protein-D and pulmonary host defense 
  - Author: Crouch E and Wright JR 
  - DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-12-801238-3.64570-9

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**