---
title: "NFATC4"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: NFATC4"
tags: ['NFATC4', 'gene', 'function', 'mutation', 'disease', 'treatment', 'prognosis', 'research']
---

## Gene: NFATC4
- Function: The NFATC4 gene is involved in a variety of cellular processes including immune response, cell differentiation, apoptosis, and cardiac development.
- External IDs: 
    - Gene ID: 4776
    - Genomic Location: Chromosome 16q22.1
    - Aliases: NFAT3, NFATX, NFATc3, NFATx
- External Sites: 
    - HGNC: 7798
    - NCBI Entrez: 4776
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000130829
    - OMIM: 602748
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q14934
- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
    - c.400C>T (p.Arg134*)
    - c.937G>A (p.Arg313His) with dbSNP ID rs200058979
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
    - c.1154_1155del (p.Ile385Leufs*2) with dbSNP ID rs730881141
- Related Disease: The NFATC4 gene has been associated with several diseases including congenital heart disease, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, breast cancer, and gastric cancer.
- Treatment and Prognosis: Treatment options for diseases associated with NFATC4 mutations vary widely depending on the specific condition. Prognosis can also be highly variable and is often dependent on disease severity and response to treatment.
- Drug Response: There is limited information on drug response for diseases associated with NFATC4 mutations.
- Related Papers:
    - Subject: Loss of NFATc3, a Smad4 target, promotes liver fibrosis through increased TGF-β1 signaling.
      Author: Shim JH, Xiao C, Paschal AE, Bailey ST, Rao P, Hayden MS, Lee KY, Bussey C, Steckel M, Tanaka N, Liu ZG, Yamada G, Akira S, Matsumoto K, Ghosh S.
      DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.1000330
    - Subject: A detailed ordering of events is required for effective differentiation of cardiomyocytes from human induced pluripotent stem cells.
      Author: Lian X, Zhang J, Azarin SM, Zhu K, Hazeltine LB, Bao X, Hsiao C, Kamp TJ, Palecek SP.
      DOI: 10.1038/ncomms10357

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**