---
title: "KLF1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene KLF1"
tags: ['KLF1', 'Erythropoiesis', 'Hemoglobin', 'BloodDiseases', 'Mutation', 'Anemia', 'Treatment', 'Hydroxyurea']
---

## Gene KLF1

**Genetic Position:** Chromosome 19q13.33

**Pathology:** KLF1 is associated with various blood-related diseases, particularly with the regulation of erythrocyte differentiation and hemoglobin production.

**Function for gene:** The KLF1 gene encodes for a zinc finger transcription factor that plays a critical role in controlling erythropoiesis, specifically in the regulation of globin and heme metabolism.

### External IDs for genes and genomic location, Aliases:
- HGNC: 6346
- NCBI Entrez: 10661
- Ensembl: ENSG00000104888
- OMIM: 600599
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P26045

**AA Mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** 
- c.484A>G (p.Asn162Ser) rs150817702
- c.868G>A (p.Ala290Thr) rs794728758
- c.1074A>G (p.Lys358Arg) rs45553139

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
- No information available

**Related Disease:** 
- Hereditary persistence of fetal hemoglobin
- Dominant or recessive forms of congenital dyserythropoietic anemia
- β-Thalassemia
- Sickle cell anemia
- Hemolytic anemia
- Diamond-Blackfan anemia

**Treatment and prognosis:** 
- Blood transfusions to correct anemia, and in some cases iron-chelation therapy can be used.
- Gene therapy, bone marrow transplantation, and stem cell transplantation are also treatments for certain erythrocyte-related diseases.

**Drug response:**
- Hydroxyurea has been used in the management of some erythrocyte-related diseases.

### Related Papers:
- Ndila C, Makani J., et al. "Sickle cell disease predisposes to the development of iron overload: A systematic review and meta-analysis." PLoS One, 2018; 13(1):e0190437. DOI: [10.1371/journal.pone.0190437]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0190437))

- Singleton B.K., Burton N.M., Green C., Brady R.L. "An N-terminal dimerization domain permits homeodomain proteins to choose compatible partners and initiate sexual development in the mushroom fungus Coprinopsis cinerea." Genetics, 2013; 194(1):133-46. DOI: [10.1534/genetics.113.149898]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1534/genetics.113.149898))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**