---
title: "GPD1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene GPD1"
tags: ['GPD1', 'Glycerol3PhosphateDehydrogenase', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'Mutation', 'RelatedPapers', 'NoDiseaseAssociation', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene GPD1

### Genetic Position and Pathology

- **Genetic Position:** GPD1 (Glycerol-3-Phosphate Dehydrogenase 1) is located on chromosome 12q13.13.
- **Pathology:** No known genetic diseases have been associated with mutations in the GPD1 gene.

### Function

GPD1 encodes an enzyme called glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase that catalyzes the conversion of dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) to glycerol-3-phosphate (G3P) in the glycolysis pathway.

### External IDs and Aliases

- **HGNC ID:** HGNC:4378
- **NCBI Entrez Gene ID:** 2821
- **Ensembl Gene ID:** ENSG00000152414
- **OMIM ID:** 138420
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** P21695
- **Aliases:** GPD, GPDH, GPDH1

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are two AA mutations reported in the GPD1 gene:
- **p.Ser188Ile -** The SNP ID for this mutation is rs11558497. The mutation is a missense mutation where the amino acid (AA) serine is replaced by isoleucine at position 188.
- **p.Ser154Gly -** The SNP ID for this mutation is rs76723693. This mutation is also a missense mutation where the AA serine is replaced by glycine at position 154.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for the GPD1 gene so far.

### Related Disease

No genetic diseases have been associated with mutations in the GPD1 gene.

### Treatment and Prognosis

Since there are no known genetic diseases associated with the GPD1 gene, there are no specific treatments or prognoses related to it.

### Drug Response

No information is currently available regarding drug response related to the GPD1 gene.

### Related Papers

- **Subject:** Cloning and nucleotide sequences of two different cDNAs encoding NAD+-dependent glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase from human liver

  **Author:** Yamada K, Noguchi T, Takenaka Y, et al.

  **DOI:** [10.1016/0167-4781(86)90163-5]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4781(86)90163-5))

- **Subject:** Missense mutation Gly148Asp in human NAD-dependent glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase causes NADH-dependent inhibition by an NAD+ competitive inhibitor.

  **Author:** Aoyama Y, Tsuchiya D, Glancy T, et al.

  **DOI:** [10.1074/jbc.M109.078733]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M109.078733))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**