---
title: "APOC3"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information on Gene APOC3"
tags: ['APOC3', 'lipidmetabolism', 'hypertriglyceridemia', 'cardiovasculardisease', 'geneticvariation', 'drugresponse', 'treatment', 'prognosis']
---

## Information on Gene APOC3

The APOC3 gene encodes apolipoprotein C-III, a small protein synthesized in liver and intestine. The protein is found in chylomicrons, VLDL and HDL particles and acting as an inhibitor of lipoprotein lipase and hepatic lipase, it reduces the breakdown of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins and hence increase their plasma concentrations. It plays a role in the regulation of lipid metabolism, which is essential for normal physiological functions. 

### Gene Information
- Gene: APOC3
- Aliases: APOCIII, apo-CIII, apoC-III, Apolipoprotein C3
- Genomic location: Chromosome 11: 116,741,548-116,745,079
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 608
    - NCBI Entrez: 345
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000164308
    - OMIM: 107720
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P02656

### Mutations
- The genetic variation in the APOC3 gene has been found to be associated with a range of metabolic disorders including hypertriglyceridemia, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease.
- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
    - c.386C>T (p.Arg129Cys) rs76353203
    - c.1375A>G (p.Thr459Ala) rs147210663
    - c.80C>T (p.Ala27Val) rs76941015

### Related Diseases
The genetic variation in the APOC3 gene has been associated with the following disease conditions:
- Familial type III hyperlipoproteinemia
- Hyperlipoproteinemia type V
- Hypertriglyceridemia
- Atherosclerosis
- Insulin resistance
- Type-2 diabetes

### Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment of hypertriglyceridemia associated with APOC3 mutations involves the management of the triglyceride levels through diet, exercise, and medication. Statins, fibrates, and omega-3 fatty acid supplements have all been found to be effective in lowering triglyceride levels and hence reducing the risk of cardiovascular events. Early diagnosis, proper management and follow-up are the keys to a better prognosis.

### Drug Response
The APOC3 gene and its protein product offer potential targets for drug development and therapeutics. Inhibitors of APOC3 production or function could lower triglyceride levels and hence reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. Although there are no specific drugs that target APOC3, the available therapies such as statins, fibrates, and omega-3 fatty acid supplements have all been found to be effective in lowering triglyceride levels.

### References
- Dewey FE et al. (2016). Cardiovascular and metabolic risk of APOC3. Annals of human genetics, 200-215. PMID: 27464244
- Kathiresan S et al. (2010). Common variants at 30 loci contribute to polygenic dyslipidemia. Nat Genet. PMID: 20037586
- Crosby J et al. (2015). Loss-of-function mutations in APOC3, triglycerides, and coronary disease. NEJM. PMID: 25913043

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**