---
title: "DAZ1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene DAZ1"
tags: ['DAZ1', 'Azoospermia', 'MaleInfertility', 'Spermatogenesis', 'MissenseMutations', 'AssistedReproductiveTechnologies', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene DAZ1

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: Y
- Location:  Azoozopsermia Factor region AZFa
- Locus: 3,319,429 - 3,337,518

## Pathology
The deletion or mutation of DAZ1 is associated with azoospermia. DAZ1 is considered an important gene for male fertility and its absence or alteration can cause infertility.

## Function
The DAZ (Deleted in Azoospermia) gene family is involved in spermatogenesis and is conserved across species. DAZ1 plays a role in the regulation of germ cell differentiation, meiosis, and spermatogenesis.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 2705
- NCBI Entrez: 1617
- Ensembl: ENSG00000229852
- OMIM: 415000
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q92904

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several missense mutations in coding exons of DAZ1, some of which are associated with infertility. Here are a few examples with their corresponding dbSNP IDs:

|AA change|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|--------|------------|-------|
|T17A|Missense|rs138177634|
|R30W|Missense|rs202133315|
|K236N|Missense|rs138452284|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels in DAZ1.

## Related Disease
- Azoospermia: Infertility in males resulting from the absence or alteration of DAZ1.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no known cure for DAZ1-related infertility. Treatment options may include assisted reproductive technologies such as in vitro fertilization (IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). The prognosis for individuals with DAZ1-related infertility depends on the severity of the condition and the success of any treatments.

## Drug Response
There are no known drugs specifically targeting DAZ1. However, drugs used in IVF or ICSI treatments may have different efficacy based on the severity of DAZ1-related infertility.

## Related Papers
- [Expression pattern and identification of alternative splice variants of the DAZ genes in the cynomolgus monkey]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmb.2004.11.015))
- [Implication of Dead-end1 in the Regulation of Spermatogonia in Mammals]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1159/000109678))
- [DAZ1 Gene Deletion in the Y Chromosome of a Man with Spermatogenic Failure]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1743-6109.2008.00777.x))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**