---
title: "ATP2C1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information Analysis for ATP2C1"
tags: ['ATP2C1', 'HaileyHaileyDisease', 'GeneticMutation', 'CalciumTransport', 'SkinBlisters', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticAnalysis']
---

## Gene Information Analysis for ATP2C1

### Genetic Position
The gene ATP2C1 is located on the chromosome 3q22.1.

### Pathology & Function
The ATP2C1 gene provides instructions to create a protein that is involved in transporting ions across cell membranes. The protein is specifically responsible for transporting calcium ions out of cells, which is important for maintaining proper levels of calcium in various tissues of the body. Mutations in this gene can lead to a condition called Hailey-Hailey disease, which is characterized by the formation of fluid-filled blisters on the skin.

### External IDs & Aliases
- HGNC: 810
- NCBI Entrez: 27032
- Ensembl: ENSG00000114529
- OMIM: 601124
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O14677

Aliases: ATP2A3, ATPA2, ATP2C1A, HHD, MRE11B1.

### AA Mutation List
- p.Cys1217Tyr with dbSNP ID rs1219124503
- p.Leu928Pro with dbSNP ID rs202067195
- p.Arg677His with dbSNP ID rs876669253

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
There are currently 16 somatic SNVs/InDels reported for the ATP2C1 gene with dbSNP IDs ranging from rs762686080 to rs759265430.

### Related Disease
Mutations in the ATP2C1 gene are associated with Hailey-Hailey disease, which is a rare genetic disorder that causes blisters to form on the skin.

### Treatment & Prognosis
There is currently no known cure for Hailey-Hailey disease. Treatment focuses on managing symptoms such as blisters and preventing infection. Topical and oral medications may be used to help control symptoms.

### Drug Response
There is limited information available on drug response for individuals with Hailey-Hailey disease. However, certain medications such as antibiotics and antifungal drugs may be used to prevent or treat infections that may occur as a result of the condition.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Genetic analysis of ATP2C1 gene mutations in Korean patients with Hailey-Hailey disease
  - Author: Yoo YG, Gil HJ, Kim HD, Kim JW, Lee ES, Park TJ.
  - DOI: 10.5021/ad.2011.23.3.346
- Subject: Successful use of topical tacrolimus for Hailey-Hailey disease
  - Author: Diluvio L, Manca V, De Simone C, Campione E.
  - DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-4632.2012.05484.x

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**