---
title: "SCGB1A1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information Analysis: SCGB1A1 Gene"
tags: ['SCGB1A1', 'RespiratoryDiseases', 'Biomarker', 'GeneticVariations', 'COSMIC', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Genetic Information Analysis: SCGB1A1 Gene

## Gene Information
- **Gene Name:** Secretoglobin Family 1A Member 1 (SCGB1A1)
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 10677
    - NCBI Entrez: 7356
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000162688
    - OMIM: 171650
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P11684
- **Aliases:** hPCE and CC16

## Genetic Position
- **Chromosome:** 11
- **Genomic Position:** 52,037,274 - 52,042,471
- **Orientation:** Plus strand
- **Cytoband:** 11q13.1

## Pathology
- **Function:** The SCGB1A1 gene encodes for Secretoglobin Family 1A member 1 protein, which belongs to the secretoglobin superfamily. It is a small, calcium-binding protein that is predominantly expressed in the respiratory tract. SCGB1A1 is involved in cell differentiation, inflammation, and airway epithelial repair and is considered a potential biomarker for lung diseases.
- **Related Disease:** SCGB1A1 has been implicated in various respiratory diseases, including asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and lung cancer.
- **Treatment and Prognosis:** Treatment and prognosis differ among diseases related to SCGB1A1. For example, glucocorticoids and bronchodilators are used to manage asthma and COPD symptoms, while lung cancer treatment involves surgical resection, chemotherapy, and targeted therapy based on specific gene mutations.
- **Drug Response:** The response to drugs is not well established for SCGB1A1-related respiratory diseases.

## Genetic Variations
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:** Currently, there are no reported amino acid (AA) mutations for SCGB1A1 in the dbSNP database.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** Several somatic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and insertions/deletions (InDels) have been reported for SCGB1A1 in the COSMIC database. These include rs751245329, rs200858962, and rs368613136.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Association between SCGB1A1 gene polymorphisms and airflow obstruction in asthma
- Author: Wang Y, Chen Y, et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00408-012-9395-3)

- Subject: Prognostic Significance of SPDEF and SCGB1A1 Co-expression in Human Lung Adenocarcinoma
- Author: Stovgaard ES, Nielsen SF, et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-018-33485-4)

- Subject: CC16, IL-1ra and CXCL10 expression in bronchoalveolar lavage, plasma and urine in lung cancer patients with and without chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
- Author: de Torres JP, Pinto-Plata V, et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1378/chest.128.2.655)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**