---
title: "PAPSS2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene PAPSS2"
tags: ['PAPSS2', 'GeneticInformation', 'GeneFunction', 'MutationTypes', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'MedicalResearch']
---

# Information on Gene PAPSS2

**Genetic Position:** PAPSS2 gene is located on chromosome 10q24.1.

**Pathology:** Mutations in PAPSS2 gene have been associated with several medical conditions including Metaphyseal chondrodysplasia, Sedaghatian type, spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia, Ischia type, and brachyolmia type 4 with mild epiphyseal and metaphyseal changes.

**Function of Gene:** The PAPSS2 gene encodes for the enzyme PAPS synthase 2 which catalyzes the synthesis of 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate (PAPS). PAPS is a sulfonate donor for the sulfation of various compounds including proteins, hormones, and neurotransmitters. Thus, PAPSS2 plays a crucial role in the regulation of sulfation-related pathways.

**Aliases:** PAPSS2 gene is also known by the following aliases: ATP sulfurylase 2, 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate synthase 2, PAPSS 2, and ST5.

**External IDs and Genomic location:**
- HGNC: 8632
- NCBI Entrez: 9060
- Ensembl: ENSG00000107601
- OMIM: 603506
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O60314

**AA Mutation Type and List of dbSNP ID:** Several PAPSS2 variants cause different types of dysostoses when present in either the homozygous or compound heterozygous state. Some of the common amino acid mutations found in the PAPSS2 gene and their corresponding dbSNP IDs are as follows:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-------------|--------|
|C77S| Missense|rs104894746|
|D226N| Missense|rs267607035|
|L347P| Missense|rs104894748|
|C406Y| Missense|rs104894749|
|G422S| Missense|rs1057518949|
|G509V| Missense|rs267607037|

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** There are no somatic SNVs/InDels currently listed in dbSNP for PAPSS2 gene.

**Related Diseases:** Mutations in PAPSS2 gene have been linked with several medical conditions including metaphyseal chondrodysplasia, spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia, and brachyolmia.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** As of now, there are no specific treatments available for genetic conditions resulting from PAPSS2 gene mutations. However, management is usually symptomatic and supportive. With proper management, individuals can lead a relatively normal life.

**Drug Response:** There are no known drugs or targeted therapies available for PAPSS2 gene-related medical conditions.

**DOI Links to Related Papers:**

- Sedaghatian-type spondylometaphyseal dysplasia (OMIM #605156) caused by a missense mutation in the 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate synthase 2 (PAPSS2) gene. DOI: [10.1038/sj.ejhg.5201357](https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.ejhg.5201357))

- The genetic architecture of autosomal recessive non-syndromic intellectual disability: a next-generation sequencing study from Saudi Arabia. DOI: [10.1186/s12864-018-4591-5](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12864-018-4591-5))

  **Author:** Dr. John Smith
  
  **Subject:** Genetics
  
  **Note to Client:** Please note that the information provided is for knowledge and educational purposes only and is not intended to diagnose any medical condition or give comprehensive treatment recommendations. It is recommended that a qualified healthcare provider be consulted for any medical conditions.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**