---
title: "BRD1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: BRD1"
tags: ['BRD1', 'GeneticInformation', 'Schizophrenia', 'Cancer', 'BETinhibitors', 'Therapy', 'Prognosis', 'ExomeSequencing']
---

## Gene: BRD1

### Genetic position and Genomic location

- Gene ID: 84150
- Chromosome: 22
- Location: 22q13.33

### Function

BRD1 (Bromodomain-containing protein 1) is a protein-coding gene that regulates various cellular processes, including transcriptional regulation, cell division, and chromatin remodeling. It plays an essential role in brain development and function, particularly in the prefrontal cortex, an area of the brain involved in cognition, emotion, and social behavior.

### External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC ID: 17852
- NCBI Entrez ID: 84150
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000128271
- OMIM ID: 608443
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9N2K0
- Aliases: C22orf25, FLJ20348, KIAA0914, KIAA1183

### AA mutations and dbSNP IDs

BRD1 has various missense mutations that have been linked to cognitive impairments such as schizophrenia. Some of these mutations include:

| AA Mutation | Mutation type   | dbSNP ID   |
|-------------|----------------|------------|
| Ser172Cys   | Missense       | rs3738524  |
| Arg469Trp   | Missense       | rs138327113|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels and dbSNP IDs

BRD1 has several somatic SNVs/InDels that are associated with various cancers. Some of these include:

- rs3806309 (lung adenocarcinoma)
- rs201101826 (prostate cancer)

### Related Disease

BRD1 mutations have been linked to several disorders, including:

- Schizophrenia
- Autism spectrum disorder (ASD)
- Major depressive disorder (MDD)

### Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment for BRD1-associated disorders involves medication and therapy to manage the symptoms. Currently, there is no cure for these disorders, and prognosis depends on various factors such as severity and response to treatment.

### Drug Response

Several drugs targeting BRD1 are currently in clinical development for the treatment of various cancers, including:

- BET inhibitors, such as JQ-1 and I-BET-762
- Bromodomain Inhibitor, CPI203

### Related Papers

- Li et al., 2017. [Genetic association and expression analysis of BRD1 gene in schizophrenia patients in Han Chinese population](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28699382/).) Neurosci Lett.
- Hillmer et al., 2011. [Exome sequencing identifies BRAF mutations in papillary craniopharyngiomas](https://www.nature.com/articles/ng.846).) Nature Genetics.
- Caratozzolo et al., 2013. [The TRIM protein family in genome stability and innate immunity](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3705418/).) Front Biosci (Landmark Ed).

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**