---
title: "OR10C1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene OR10C1"
tags: ['OR10C1', 'OlfactoryReceptor', 'Chromosome6', 'GeneFunction', 'NoDiseaseAssociation', 'NoKnownMutations', 'NoKnownDrugResponse', 'OdorPerception']
---

# Information about gene OR10C1

## Genetic Position
OR10C1 belongs to the olfactory receptor (OR) gene family located on chromosome 6 in humans, at the position 6q23.2-23.3.

## Pathology and Function
The OR10C1 gene codes for a protein that is a member of the olfactory receptor family involved in the perception of smell. It mediates responses to various odorant molecules, which bind to the receptor protein, leading to the activation of a signal transduction pathway and ultimately triggering a neural response.

## External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 8139 
    - NCBI Entrez Gene: 414171 
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000276120 
    - OMIM: 612350 
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NGS4

- Aliases: 
    - OR10C 
    - OR10C-1
    - OR10C1P 
    - olfactory receptor family 10 subfamily C member 1 pseudogene

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Currently, no known AA mutations are reported in the OR10C1 gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Currently, no known somatic SNVs/InDels are reported in the OR10C1 gene.

## Related Disease
There is no reported association of the OR10C1 gene with any particular disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis
As there is no reported association of the OR10C1 gene with any disease, there is no known treatment or prognosis related to it.

## Drug Response
As there is currently no known association of the OR10C1 gene with any particular disease, there are no known drugs or drug responses related to it.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Olfactory receptors
- Author: Malnic B, Godfrey PA, Buck LB.
- DOI: [10.1038/nrn1709]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/nrn1709)

This paper provides an in-depth review of the olfactory receptor gene family, including the OR10C1 gene, its structure, function, and evolutionary origins. It also discusses the molecular mechanisms of odor perception and olfactory signaling pathways.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**