---
title: "SLC7A10"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for SLC7A10"
tags: ['SLC7A10', 'AminoAcidTransporter', 'BipolarDisorder', 'MoodDisorders', 'GeneticMutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Neurotransmitters', 'TherapeuticTargets']
---

# Gene Information for SLC7A10

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 16
- Gene start position: 27,429,116 bp
- Gene end position: 27,533,704 bp

## Pathology and Function
- Pathology: SLC7A10 gene mutations are associated with a variety of disorders related to cognitive function, including bipolar disorder and mood disorders.
- Function: The SLC7A10 gene encodes a protein called asc-type amino acid transporter 2 (ASCT2), which is a sodium-dependent amino acid transporter. ASCT2 is expressed in the brain and plays a role in the transport of glutamine and other neutral amino acids, particularly in astrocytes. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: HGNC:10916
- NCBI Entrez ID: 23424
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000141017
- OMIM ID: 606813
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9H2Y9
- Aliases: ASC1, ATA2, SATT

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No amino acid mutations associated with SLC7A10 have been reported in human populations.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are currently no somatic SNVs/InDels associated with the SLC7A10 gene in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
- Bipolar disorder
- Mood disorders

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment for bipolar disorder and mood disorders generally involves a combination of medications and therapy.
- Patient prognosis varies depending on the severity of symptoms and individual response to treatment.

## Drug Response
- The SLC7A10 gene is known to be involved in the transport of certain amino acids that can affect the efficacy of certain drugs, such as nutritional supplements.

## Related Papers
- Hori T, et al. A common variant of SLC7A10 gene is associated with schizophrenia in Japanese population. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2010 Oct;35(11):2171-2. doi: 10.1038/npp.2010.96. PMID: 20631673.
- Stone TW, et al. Potential therapeutic targets in schizophrenia: amino acid neurotransmitter transporters. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2011 Nov;10(7):765-76. doi: 10.2174/187152711798072419. PMID: 21707454.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**