---
title: "C7"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene C7 Information"
tags: ['GeneC7', 'ComplementComponent7', 'TerminalComplementCascade', 'AutoimmuneDisease', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'ProphylacticAntibiotics', 'ImmunoglobulinReplacementTherapy', 'MembraneAttackComplex']
---

# Gene C7 Information

## Genetic Position

* Gene Name: C7
* Chromosome: 5
* Base Pair Location: 99,634,700 - 99,651,839

## Pathology

* Diseases: Complement component 7 deficiency (OMIM: #610102), Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (OMIM: #152700)
* Pathways: Complement Activation Classical Pathway, Complement Pathway, Fluid Phase Reactions
* Related Proteins: C1QA, C1QB, C1QC, C1R, C1S, C4A, C4B, C5, C6, C8A, C8B, C9

## Function

* C7 encodes a complement protein, which is a component of the terminal complement cascade involved in immune system modulation and inflammation.
* The encoded protein is synthesized by hepatocytes and circulates in the blood as a single-chain polypeptide.
* In the terminal complement cascade, C7 is cleaved by C5-convertase to generate C7a and C7b, which assemble in a complex to form the membrane attack complex (MAC).
* The MAC plays a critical role in the elimination of pathogens and damaged cells by creating pores in the target cell membrane and causing lysis.

## External IDs and Aliases

* Gene ID: 730
* HGNC ID: 1322
* Ensembl ID: ENSG00000105976
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P10643
* Alias: CO, C5b-6, C5b7, CPAMD5

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

No pathogenic variants have been reported in the C7 gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

No somatic variants have been reported in the C7 gene.

## Related Disease

Complement component 7 deficiency is a rare disorder characterized by recurrent life-threatening bacterial infections, particularly by Neisseria species.
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus is an autoimmune disease characterized by chronic inflammation and damage to various organs.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Complement component 7 deficiency is treated with prophylactic antibiotics and immunoglobulin replacement therapy.
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus is treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), corticosteroids, immunosuppressive drugs, and biologics.
The prognosis for complement component 7 deficiency and SLE varies depending on the severity of the disease and the response to treatment.

## Drug Response

Several studies have shown that complement inhibitors may have a therapeutic effect in autoimmune diseases, including SLE. Hence, C7 inhibitors may be a potential therapeutic target.

## References

* Song, W. C. & Sarrias, M. R. (2009). "Regulation of the complement system". Seminars in Immunopathology, 31(4), 439-457. doi: 10.1007/s00281-009-0175-1
* Morgan, B. P. (2016). "The membrane attack complex as an inflammatory trigger". Immunobiology, 221(4), 747-751. doi: 10.1016/j.imbio.2015.10.022

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**