---
title: "SLCO1A2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['SLCO1A2', 'OrganicAnionTransporter', 'DrugMetabolism', 'Polymorphisms', 'Cancer', 'DrugInteractions', 'Statins', 'Pharmacokinetics']
---

## Gene Information

**Gene:** SLCO1A2

**Function:** The SLCO1A2 gene encodes for the organic anion transporter protein 2 (OATP2), which is responsible for the uptake of various endogenous and exogenous compounds, including drugs and hormones, from the blood into the liver.

**External IDs and Genomic Location:**

- HGNC: 10951
- NCBI Entrez: 28234
- Ensembl: ENSG00000126561
- OMIM: 601460
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y6L6

**Aliases:** 

- OATP2
- LST-1
- SLC21A6

**AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

There are several known Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) in the SLCO1A2 gene, some of which result in amino acid changes. The following is a list of some of the common non-synonymous SNPs (nsSNPs) found in the SLCO1A2 gene:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| p.Asp312Asn | missense | rs11568576 |
| p.Thr140Ala | missense | rs17680137 |
| p.Val174Ala | missense | rs34536443 |
| p.Asp383Gly | missense | rs2306168 |

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

There are several somatic SNVs/InDels reported in the SLCO1A2 gene, some of which are associated with cancer. The following is a list of some of the known somatic SNVs/InDels:

| SNV/InDel | dbSNP ID | Related cancer |
| --- | --- | --- |
| c.1323+1G>A | rs1553066837 | Colorectal Adenocarcinoma |
| c.998G>C | rs200376941 | Liver Cancer |
| c.1546G>A | rs150849484 | Malignant Melanoma |

**Related Disease:**

SLCO1A2 gene is associated with several diseases including hyperbilirubinemia, hypertension, type 2 diabetes, Alzheimer’s disease, and cancer.

**Treatment and Prognosis:**

Treatment plans and prognoses for diseases associated with the SLCO1A2 gene depend on the specific disease and may vary.

**Drug Response:**

Certain drugs are known to interact with the SLCO1A2 gene. An example of such drugs is statins, which are cholesterol-lowering medications that are substrates for OATP2. Polymorphisms in the SLCO1A2 gene can affect the efficacy and toxicity of statins.

**References:**

- König, J., & Fromm, M. F. (2011). Clinical pharmacokinetics of solute carriers. Drug discovery today, 16(17-18), 820–827. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.drudis.2011.07.007)

- Hagenbuch, B., & Meier, P. J. (2004). The superfamily of organic anion transporting polypeptides. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) - Biomembranes, 1609(1), 1–18. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbamem.2003.09.028)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**