---
title: "B3GALT2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene B3GALT2"
tags: ['B3GALT2', 'EhlersDanlosSyndrome', 'ConnectiveTissue', 'Glycosaminoglycans', 'MissenseMutation', 'EDSPGV2', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'GeneticAnalysis']
---

# Information about Gene B3GALT2

**Genetic Position:** B3GALT2 gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 6 at position 15.1.

**Pathology:** Mutations in the B3GALT2 gene have been associated with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, progeroid variant 2 (EDS-PGV2), which is an autosomal recessive disorder that affects the connective tissue in the body.

**Function:** The B3GALT2 gene encodes an enzyme that is involved in the biosynthesis of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) like keratan sulfate and chondroitin sulfate.

**External IDs:**

- HGNC ID: 972
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000137256
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 8708
- OMIM ID: 612951
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9Y5W7
- Gene location: chromosome 6, 15.1

**Aliases:** beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase 2, GalT-II, Gal-transferase II, UDP-Gal:betaGlcNAc beta 1,3-galactosyltransferase, EC 2.4.1.133

**AA Mutation list and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**

| Amino Acid Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|     :------:     |   :-------:  |  :-----: |
|    Arg270Cys     |   Missense   |  rs121434448 |
|    Ala291Val     |   Missense   |  rs199737498 |
|    Glu230Gly     |   Missense   |  rs199884386 |
|    Thr263Ile     |   Missense   |  rs199950338 |
|    Val303Ile     |   Missense   |  rs200327206 |
|    Ala240Thr     |   Missense   |  rs371910874 |

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** There is no record of somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID.

**Related Disease:** Mutations in B3GALT2 have been associated with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, progeroid variant 2 (EDS-PGV2), which is an autosomal recessive disorder that affects the connective tissue in the body.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** The treatment for EDS-PGV2 is symptomatic and depends on the severity of the symptoms exhibited by the individual. No cure exists for EDS-PGV2.

**Drug Response:** There is no available information on drug response for mutations in B3GALT2.

**Related Papers:**

- **Subject:** Molecular Genetic Analysis of B3GALT and SLC35B2 Genes in Two Chinese Families with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome Progeroid Type.
  - **Author(s):** Yu Y, Zhang Y, Liu Y, Wang Y, Zhang M, Li S, Hao Y, Gong Z.
  - **DOI:** 10.1155/2017/9824254
  - **Link:** [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5383564/)

- **Subject:** Ehlers-Danlos syndrome with progressive kyphoscoliosis, myopathy, and hearing loss: a case report and literature review.
  - **Author(s):** Zhang Y, Du J, Zheng Y, Xiang J, Zhang Y, Sun J, Chen L.
  - **DOI:** 10.1159/000503508
  - **Link:** [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7348861/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**