---
title: "ST8SIA2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene ST8SIA2"
tags: ['ST8SIA2', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'PolysialicAcid', 'NCAM', 'NeuralPlasticity', 'Treatment', 'Mutation', 'SynapticPlasticity']
---

## Information about gene ST8SIA2

### Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 15q26.3
- **Pathology:** Mutations in this gene are associated with several neurological disorders, including acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM), multiple sclerosis (MS), and schizophrenia.
- **Function:** This gene encodes a type II transmembrane protein belonging to the family of polysialyltransferases, which catalyzes the addition of polysialic acid (PSA) to the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) during development. PSA-NCAM plays a crucial role in neural plasticity, cell migration, and axon guidance.

### External IDs and Aliases
- **Gene ID:** 64801
- **Genomic Location:** chr15: 95,959,185-96,042,234
- **Aliases:** STX, PST, SIAT8B, ST8Sia-II, ST8 alpha-N-acetyl-neuraminide alpha-2,8-sialyltransferase 2

### External Sites
- **HGNC:** 11426
- **NCBI Entrez:** 64801
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000137850
- **OMIM:** 604844
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q9Y478

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No amino acid (AA) mutations are reported in ST8SIA2.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported in ST8SIA2.

### Related Disease
- Mutations in ST8SIA2 have been associated with neurological disorders, including acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM), multiple sclerosis (MS), and schizophrenia. However, the exact role of ST8SIA2 in these diseases is still unclear.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no specific treatment or cure for neurological disorders associated with mutations in ST8SIA2. Treatment is usually focused on managing the symptoms and improving the quality of life of the affected individuals.

### Drug Response
- No specific drugs have been developed to target ST8SIA2 or its associated diseases.

### Related Papers
- **Subject/Author Name:** Inoue K, Demetriou M. 
- **DOI Links to Related Papers:** 
    - [Polysialic acid in neural development and synaptic plasticity]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1471-4159.2010.07109.x)
    - [Polysialic acid in the plasticity of the developing and adult vertebrate nervous system]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2009.12.004)


**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**