---
title: "DISP1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information: DISP1"
tags: ['DISP1', 'HedgehogSignalingPathway', 'GeneticDisorders', 'Holoprosencephaly', 'MeckelSyndrome', 'TargetedTreatment', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene Information: DISP1

- **Function:** DISP1 (Dispatched Homolog 1) plays a critical role in the Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway by regulating the release and trafficking of the Hh ligand. This pathway is required for proper embryonic development, cell differentiation, and tissue homeostasis. Aberrant regulation of this pathway has been implicated in various developmental disorders and cancers.

- **External IDs and Genomic location**:
  - Gene ID: 84976
  - Genomic Location: Chromosome 1, q41-q42.13
  - Aliases: Dispatched1, KIAA1199
  
- **External sites:**
  - HGNC: HGNC:16617
  - NCBI Entrez: 84976
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000162486
  - OMIM: 607502
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9JIA4

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** 
  - c.2805C>T (p.Thr935Met); rs11793078
  - c.616G>A (p.Val206Met); rs79656620

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
  - c.2905A>G; rs372982303
  - c.1810G>A; rs1421061847

- **Related disease:** 
  - Several genetic disorders have been associated with DISP1 mutations, including Holoprosencephaly (HPE), which affects the development of the brain and face. DISP1 mutations have also been implicated in Oral-Facial-Digital Syndrome Type VI (OFD VI) and Meckel syndrome (MKS).
 
- **Treatment and prognosis:**
  - Currently, no targeted treatments are available for genetic disorders caused by DISP1 mutations. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive. The prognosis varies depending on the severity and specific features of the disorder.

- **Drug response:**
  - There is no known drug response associated with DISP1 mutations.

- **Related papers:**
  - *Subject:* "DISP1 mutations in convergent neural tube closure defects." 
    *Author:* Lei Zhang et al. 
    *DOI link:* [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/humu.23243)
  
  - *Subject:* "DISP1 associated heterotaxy: Novel Animations and insights" 
    *Author:* Vladislav Slepak et al. 
    *DOI link:* [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpeds.2017.05.055)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**