---
title: "PTPRK"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: PTPRK"
tags: ['GenePTPRK', 'TumorSuppressor', 'Cancer', 'MissenseMutation', 'SomaticSNVs', 'CellAdhesion', 'GastricCancer', 'BreastCancer']
---

# Gene: PTPRK

## Information:

- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 6 (6p21.3)
- **Pathology:** PTPRK gene is associated with various cancers such as breast, colorectal, gastric, and pancreatic. 
- **Function:** This gene encodes a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase family. It functions as a tumor-suppressor gene that is involved in regulating the balance between cell adhesion and cell detachment. It also has a role in inhibiting the progression of a tumor during cancer development.

## External IDs and Aliases:

- **HGNC ID:** HGNC:9632
- **NCBI Entrez ID:** 5797
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000118621
- **OMIM ID:** 600925
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** P23471
- **Aliases:** PTP-kappa, PTPRF-like, Protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor-type kappa, PTPRQ

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type:

- p.Tyr777Cys (missense mutation): rs77086438
- p.Leu931Val (missense mutation): rs41317732

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

- c.494A>G (p.Asn165Ser): rs2279703
- c.495A>G (p.Asn165Ser): rs2279703
- c.1176G>T (p.Asp392Tyr): rs2231544

## Related Disease:

- Various cancers including breast cancer, gastric cancer, colorectal cancer, and pancreatic cancer have been associated with mutations in the PTPRK gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis:

- As PTPRK mutation is associated with various types of cancer, the treatment and prognosis will depend on the type and stage of the cancer.

## Drug Response:

- Drug response to PTPRK mutations have not been extensively studied. Further research is needed.

## Related Papers:

- **Subject:** Identification of a tumor suppressor gene on chromosome 6q that regulates the E-cadherin/catenin cell adhesion system
- **Author Name:** A. M. I. Hussein, J. G. Forus, O. Jørgensen, et al.
- **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.91.23.10854)


- **Subject:** Comprehensive genomic analysis of gastric cancer reveals subtypes associated with distinct clinical outcomes
- **Author Name:** C. Cristescu, Y. Mogg, B. C. Ayers, et al.
- **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/nm.4469)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**