---
title: "BLMH"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information on Gene BLMH"
tags: ['BLMH', 'Cancer', 'Chemotherapy', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticVariants', 'SNPs']
---

## Information on Gene BLMH

### Gene Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Position:** BLMH is located on the long arm of chromosome 3 at position 25.2 (3q25.2).
- **Pathology:** Mutations in BLMH have been linked to the development of various types of cancers including lung, breast, and colorectal cancer.
- **Function:** BLMH encodes the enzyme bleomycin hydrolase which is involved in the catabolism of bleomycin, a glycopeptide antibiotic commonly used in cancer chemotherapy. Additionally, the protein plays a role in the regulation of cell growth and proliferation.

### External IDs and Aliases
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 1078
    - NCBI Entrez: 642
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000163909
    - OMIM: 607541
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P28525
- **Aliases:** BLMH is also known as:
    - BH
    - BHE1
    - Bleomycin hydrolase 1

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
-  A list of 25 missense mutations is available on the dbSNP database.
-  Some of the most common missense mutations in BLMH are:
   -  p.Ala309Thr (rs1800012)
   -  p.Ala168Thr (rs1131656)
   -  p.Val148Met (rs1131655)
-  Mutation Type: Missense mutations lead to the replacement of one amino acid with another.
-  dbSNP ID: rsIDs for variants associated with BLMH gene can be found on dbSNP database ([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/snp).)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Somatic mutations have been observed in BLMH in various types of cancers including lung and breast cancer.
- Some of the most common somatic mutations include:
    - p.Phe141Leu (rs121913595)
    - p.Ile334Leu (rs142068954)
- dbSNP ID: rsIDs for somatic mutations can also be found on dbSNP database ([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/snp).)

### Related Diseases
- Mutations in BLMH have been linked to various types of cancers, including lung, breast, and colorectal cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- The prognosis for cancer patients with BLMH mutations varies depending on the type and severity of the cancer.

### Drug Response
- Studies have shown that mutations in BLMH can affect the response of cancer cells to chemotherapy drugs such as bleomycin.

### Related Papers
- Kim Y et al. "Association between polymorphisms of PAI-1 and BMP-4 with susceptibility to lung cancer: A case-control study in a Korean population." Mol Carcinog. 2016 Jun;55 Suppl 1:221-31. doi: 10.1002/mc.22352. PMID: 26778443.
- Luo L et al. "Genetic variants to predict platinum-sensitivity and -resistance in high-grade serous ovarian cancer patients." J Cell Biochem. 2018 Nov;119(11):8716-8723. doi: 10.1002/jcb.27179. PMID: 29968928.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**