---
title: "DLG3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene DLG3"
tags: ['DLG3', 'XlinkedIntellectualDisability', 'SynapseAssociatedProtein102', 'SAP102', 'MAGUK', 'NeurotransmitterReceptors', 'IntellectualDisabilityTreatment', 'GeneticMutation']
---

# Information about gene DLG3

## Genetic Position

DLG3 gene is located on the X chromosome at position Xq13.1.

## Pathology

Mutations in DLG3 gene are associated with X-linked intellectual disability. This disorder affects cognitive abilities, behavior, and adaptive skills in males. 

## Function 

The DLG3 gene encodes for a protein called Synapse-associated protein 102 (SAP102), which is a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family. SAP102 is involved in the formation and maintenance of synapses, which are the junctions between nerve cells. It interacts with other proteins in the synapse, including neurotransmitter receptors and ion channels, to regulate synaptic function.

## External IDs

- HGNC:2861
- NCBI Entrez:1741
- Ensembl:ENSG00000147162
- OMIM:300189
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q92796

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

Mutation Type | AA Mutation | dbSNP ID
---|---|---
Missense | R292P | rs397515398
Missense | A341V | rs1555469005
Missense | R391C | rs267607726
Splice Site | IVS9+1G>A | rs786200708
Nonsense | R506* | rs1555469023

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for this gene.

## Related Disease

X-linked intellectual disability is the disorder associated with mutations in the DLG3 gene. It affects individuals with a male genotype.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no cure for intellectual disability caused by DLG3 mutations. The treatment is focused on managing the symptoms and providing support to individuals affected by the disorder.

## Drug Response

Currently, there is no specific drug available for the treatment of intellectual disability caused by DLG3 mutations.

## Related Papers

- ***Subject***: Mutations in the X-linked Synapse Associated Protein 102 (SAP102) gene cause intellectual disability***
- ***Author name***: Tarpey PS, Smith R, Pleasance E, Whibley A, Edkins S, et al.
- ***DOI links***: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1003546

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**