---
title: "IDS"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene IDS"
tags: ['IDSgene', 'HunterSyndrome', 'EnzymeReplacementTherapy', 'HematopoieticStemCellTransplantation', 'GeneticVariants', 'TreatmentGuidelines', 'Glycosaminoglycans', 'Mucopolysaccharidoses']
---

## Information about Gene IDS

### Gene: IDS
- Function: IDS gene encodes for the iduronate-2-sulfatase enzyme which is responsible for breaking down certain complex sugars called glycosaminoglycans.
- External IDs: HGNC:5377, NCBI Entrez:3424, Ensembl:ENSG00000156006, OMIM:300823, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P22304
- Genomic Location: Chromosome Xq28
- Aliases: I2S, MPS2, HIDS, SIDS, iduronate 2-sulfatase
- Related Disease: Hunter syndrome, a genetic disorder characterized by the buildup of glycosaminoglycans in different parts of the body leading to developmental delay, organ damage, and eventually death.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- p.Leu238Arg - Missense - rs28940870
- p.Leu238Pro - Missense - rs104895049
- p.Ala300Thr - Missense - rs104894926
- p.Gly184Val - Missense - rs104894925

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- c.1174+5G>A - Splice acceptor - rs886043661
- c.43A>G - Missense - rs386834319
- c.600C>T - Missense - rs281865149

### Treatment and Prognosis:
- The currently available treatments for Hunter syndrome include enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). ERT can improve some of the symptoms of the disease but does not cure it, while HSCT has the potential to cure the disease but carries risks and is not suitable for all patients. The prognosis of Hunter syndrome depends on the severity of the disease and the age of the patient at the time of diagnosis.

### Drug Response:
- There is limited evidence suggesting that some patients with Hunter syndrome may have a better response to ERT if they have a specific genetic variant in the IDS gene (p.Leu238Arg). However, more research is needed in this area.

### Related Papers:
- Subject: Hunter syndrome (Mucopolysaccharidosis type II): a clinical review and recommendations for treatment in the era of enzyme replacement therapy
- Author: Giugliani R, Federhen A, Vairo F, et al.
- DOI: 10.1186/gb-2008-9-9-76

- Subject: Hunter Syndrome: Prevalence and Treatment Guidelines
- Author: Kazi ZB, Desai AK, Berquist WE
- DOI: 10.4061/2011/404868

- Subject: Therapeutic options for mucopolysaccharidoses: current and emerging treatments
- Author: Ahmed A, Lozier JN, and Scehnet JS
- DOI: 10.2147/TACG.S85247

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**