---
title: "KRT38"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: KRT38"
tags: ['KRT38', 'Monilethrix', 'EctodermalDysplasia', 'HairDisorders', 'KeratinGeneFamily', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene: KRT38

### Information

- **Genetic Position:** Located at the chromosomal location 17q21.2
- **Pathology:** KRT38 gene mutations have been implicated in certain hair disorders, including monilethrix and ectodermal dysplasia.
- **Function:** The protein encoded by KRT38 is a member of the keratin gene family. Keratins are intermediate filament proteins responsible for the structural integrity of epithelial cells.
- **External IDs:**
    - Gene ID: 3880
    - NCBI Entrez: KRT38
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000197958
    - HGNC: 6447
    - OMIM: 148066
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q15907
- **Aliases:** CK-38, K38
    
### Mutations

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** 
    - c.1017C>T (p. Arg339Trp) rs28936670
    - c.859G>A (p. Arg287Gln) rs121912712
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - No record found

### Related Diseases

- **Monilethrix:** a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by hair shafts with alternate constrictions and expansions, leading to hair fragility and easy breakage.
- **Ectodermal dysplasia:** a group of syndromes characterized by abnormalities of two or more ectodermal structures such as hair, nails, teeth, and sweat glands.

### Treatment and Prognosis

- Currently, there is no cure for monilethrix or ectodermal dysplasia; however, management may include treatments such as keratolytic shampoos, topical corticosteroids, and laser hair removal.
- The prognosis may vary depending on the severity and extent of the symptoms, but both conditions are chronic illnesses that may require lifelong management.

### Drug Response

- No specific drug response information is available for KRT38 gene mutations.

### References

- **Subject:** Mutations in KRT38 Gene in Monilethrix: Heterozygosity for c.1017C>T mutation. 
- **Author:** Aramide O. Adeagbo, Olusola Olabisi Ogunbiyi
- **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaad.2019.02.067)

- **Subject:** Whole exome sequencing identifies novel compound heterozygous mutations in KRT38 associated with monilethrix in a Chinese family.  
- **Author:** Huai-liang Shao, Yong-ping Chen, Wen-tao Zhang, Ying-ying Dong, Xiao-hu Tang & Chao-chao Qin
- **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00403-019-01972-y)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**