---
title: "SNAP29"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for SNAP29"
tags: ['SNAP29', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticDisorders', 'Mutation', 'Exocytosis', 'Schizophrenia', 'Treatment', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene Information for SNAP29

## Gene Description
SNAP29 (Synaptosome-associated protein 29) is a member of the SNAP family proteins that participates in intracellular membrane fusion process and plays an essential role in the regulated exocytosis of dense-core vesicles.

## Function for Gene
SNAP29 plays an important role in vesicular trafficking, intracellular membrane fusion, and is essential for regulated exocytosis.

## External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- HGNC: 11111
- NCBI Entrez: 9342
- Ensembl: ENSG00000160176
- OMIM: 603213
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O95721

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- rs200150164: c.206G>A (p.Glu69Lys)
- rs150835045: c.371C>T (p.Leu124Phe)
- rs200051956: c.374C>T (p.Leu125Phe)
- rs376907090: c.422A>G (p.Asn141Asp)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs757893133: c.298A>G (p.Tyr100Cys)
- rs754399178: c.301G>A (p.Tyr101Cys)

## Related Disease
Mutations in the SNAP29 gene have been found to be associated with Schizophrenia, Muscular Diseases, and Cleft Palate.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for genetic disorders caused by SNAP29 mutation, and the treatment is focused on managing the symptoms of the disease.

## Drug Response
There are no specific drugs targeted for SNAP29 mutations. Treatment usually involves the use of medication to manage the symptoms of associated disease.

## Related Papers
1. **Subject:** Whole-exome sequencing identifies a homozygous donor splice-site mutation in **SNAP29** causing atypical familial Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis type 4.  
   **Author:** Li Y, Bostwick BL, McElroy A, Zhang Q, Wehbi MA, Schraven B, Arber CE, Durham BH, Royer-Pokora B, Zaidi I, Smahi A, Cohen JI, Cruz-Zepeda N, Goyal RK, Hodge D, Klco JM, Koboldt DC, Kulkarni S, Nagarajan R, O'Laughlin M, Sandford E, Stilp A, Wartman LD, Wang W, Dinwiddie DL, Miller CA, Patel RM, McLeod HL, Waller RG, Milbrandt J, Nagarajan UM, Graubert TA, Westervelt P.  
   **DOI link:** [10.1182/bloodadvances.2019000743](https://doi.org/10.1182/bloodadvances.2019000743))  

2. **Subject:** A rare variant of **SNAP29** identified in a schizophrenia case with auditory hallucination and cognitive impairment.  
   **Author:** Liu X, Qi Q, Liang S, Zhao J, Zhang H, Wang Q, An H, Wang B, Gao X, Wang X, Zhang K.  
   **DOI link:** [10.1016/j.schres.2019.10.032](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.schres.2019.10.032))  

3. **Subject:** A novel homozygous frameshift **SNAP29** mutation associated with an autosomal recessive congenital nystagmus phenotype.  
   **Author:** Fu J, Li H, Li X, Liang X, Luo Y.  
   **DOI link:** [10.1007/s00439-017-1826-7](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00439-017-1826-7))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**