---
title: "TAT"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene TAT"
tags: ['GeneTAT', 'TyrosinemiaTypeII', 'Enzyme', 'Mutation', 'NTBC', 'MetabolicDisorder', 'LiverDisease', 'LowTyrosineDiet']
---

# Gene TAT

## Information about gene and genomic location

- **Function:** The TAT gene encodes for the enzyme tyrosine aminotransferase, which is involved in the catabolism of tyrosine.
- **External IDs:** HGNC:11591, NCBI Entrez Gene:6898, Ensembl:ENSG00000100342, OMIM:276600, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P17735
- **Aliases:** TAT, CTS, TATase

## Mutations and polymorphisms

- **AA mutation list:** There are several mutations in the TAT gene that have been associated with tyrosinemia type II, a rare metabolic disorder. These include missense mutations such as p.Gly171Ser, p.Arg322Cys, and p.Leu366Met.
- **Mutation type and dbSNP ID:** Single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and small insertions or deletions (InDels) have been reported in the TAT gene. Some of these have dbSNP IDs, such as rs45509297 and rs74358700.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** Somatic mutations in the TAT gene have not been reported in large-scale cancer studies.

## Related diseases, treatment, and prognosis

- **Related diseases:** Mutations in the TAT gene have been associated with tyrosinemia type II, a rare autosomal recessive disorder that results in elevated levels of tyrosine in the blood. Symptoms include skin rashes, intellectual disability, liver disease, and eye problems.
- **Treatment and prognosis:** Treatment for tyrosinemia type II involves a low-tyrosine diet and supplementation with  NTBC, which is a drug that inhibits the formation of toxic metabolites in the pathway. If left untreated, tyrosinemia type II can cause liver failure and death.
- **Drug response:** NTBC has shown to be effective in lowering tyrosine levels and improving symptoms in patients with tyrosinemia type II.

## Related papers

- Subject: Characterization of mutations in the TAT gene in patients with tyrosinemia type II
- Author name: Anguera MC, et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1098-1004(1999)14:3<262::AID-HUMU9>3.0.CO;2-O)

- Subject: Management of tyrosinemia type II with NTBC
- Author name: Lam C-W, et al.
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10545-010-9138-6)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**