---
title: "AMHR2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: Anti-Mullerian Hormone Receptor type 2 (AMHR2)"
tags: ['AMHR2', 'ReproductiveDevelopment', 'PMDS', 'DSD', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'SomaticMutation', 'TreatmentOptions']
---

# Gene: Anti-Mullerian Hormone Receptor type 2 (AMHR2)

## Genetic Position:
AMHR2 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 12 at position 12q13.13.

## Pathology:
Mutations in the AMHR2 gene are associated with persistent Mullerian duct syndrome (PMDS) in males and disorders of sex development in females.

## Function:
The AMHR2 gene encodes the Anti-Mullerian Hormone (AMH) receptor 2, which plays a key role in reproductive development. AMH is a hormone that regulates the formation of male and female reproductive organs. AMHR2 is essential for male sexual differentiation, and its mutations can result in disorders of sex development in both males and females. 

## External IDs:
- HGNC: 495
- NCBI Entrez: 269
- Ensembl: ENSG00000122986
- OMIM: 600956
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q16671

### Aliases:
- MISR2
- Mullerian inhibiting substance type II receptor
- MGC126209

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
- p.Arg60Gln: Missense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs61730045 
- p.Gln322His: Missense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs61730050 
- p.Arg365X: Nonsense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs397508362 

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- c.869G>A: Somatic mutation; dbSNP ID: rs1554236338
- c.416A>C: Somatic mutation; dbSNP ID: rs1554236339

## Related Disease:
- Persistent Mullerian Duct Syndrome (PMDS)
- Disorders of Sex Development (DSD)

## Treatment and Prognosis:
Treatment options for DSD and PMDS depend on the underlying cause and may involve surgery or hormone therapy. Prognosis is variable and depends on the severity of the condition and the presence of associated complications.

## Drug Response:
Not applicable as of now.

## Related Papers:
- Subject: An AMHR2 mutation is associated with hereditary persistent Mullerian duct syndrome in a Swedish family.
  - DOI: 10.1530/EJE-16-0628
  - Author: Andersson M, Percell KM, Alstersjö Å, Windahl T, Söderkvist P, Ritzén M, Nordenskjöld A.
- Subject: Novel AMHR2 mutations in three families with persistent Mullerian duct syndrome.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2005.01.129
  - Author: Imbeaud S, Faure E, Lamarre I, Mattei MG, di Clemente N, Tizard R, Carré-Eusèbe D, Belville C, Tragethon L, Tonkin C, et al.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**