---
title: "TEX14"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: TEX14"
tags: ['TEX14', 'Spermatogenesis', 'MaleInfertility', 'Oligozoospermia', 'ICSI', 'TesticularGermCellTumors', 'MissenseMutations', 'SomaticSNVs']
---

## Gene: TEX14

### Basic Information
TEX14 is a protein-coding gene found in humans. Its location is on Chromosome 11, and its genomic location is 11q24.2. The aliases of this gene include Testis-expressed sequence 14 protein and NYD-SP28.

### Function
The function of gene TEX14 is to regulate the formation of a stable intercellular bridge during spermatogenesis. This bridge is necessary for the formation of haploid cells and allows the exchange of genetic material between cells.

### External IDs and Sites
* HGNC: 11789
* NCBI Entrez: 56156
* Ensembl: ENSG00000165911
* OMIM: 607290
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5T2Z1

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are multiple missense mutations observed in the AA sequence of gene TEX14. A few of them include:
* R279C (rs730880518)
* W509C (rs794728810)
* C540W (rs775484007)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs and InDels reported in gene TEX14. Some of them include:
* rs1435141285
* rs1435402227
* rs368263442

### Related Disease
Mutations in gene TEX14 have been associated with male infertility, especially the oligozoospermia phenotype. Some studies have also linked TEX14 mutations to testicular germ cell tumors.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no known treatment for TEX14-related disorders. However, assisted reproductive technologies like intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) have proven helpful.

### Drug Response
There is no reported drug response for TEX14 mutations.

### Related Papers and DOI links
* Al Asiri et al., 2011. [TEX14 gene mutation affects meiotic progression in vitro in cattle]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.anireprosci.2011.09.013))
* Yang et al., 2015. [Mutation of TEX14 Gene in Chinese Han Men with Non-Obstructive Azoospermia]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12031-015-0525-9))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**