---
title: "GNPAT"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene GNPAT"
tags: ['GNPAT', 'EtherLipids', 'RCDP2', 'PeroxisomalDisorders', 'MissenseMutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene GNPAT

## Information

* **Gene Name:** GNPAT
* **Genomic Position:** Chromosome 1q42
* **Aliases:** AGPS, GPSN2
* **Function:** GNPAT gene encodes for an enzyme called glyceronephosphate O-acyltransferase (GNPAT) which is involved in the biosynthesis of ether lipids, a class of membrane lipids. GNPAT specifically catalyzes the first step in the biosynthesis of ether phospholipids, which are abundant in tissues, especially in the myelin sheath of neurons. 

## External IDs

* **HGNC ID:** HGNC:4427
* **NCBI Entrez ID:** 10457
* **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000134453
* **OMIM ID:** 602744
* **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** O15228

## Mutations

* **AA Mutation List:**

| Protein change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| p.Lys22Glu | Missense | rs72555320 |
| p.Leu29Phe | Missense | rs72555319 |
| p.Arg103Leu | Missense | rs137853137 |
| p.Gly116Asp | Missense | rs200021163 |
| p.Asp308Gly | Missense | rs200116883 |
| p.Pro318Leu | Missense | rs727504068 |

## Somatic Mutations

*None reported yet*

## Related Diseases

Mutations in the GNPAT gene have been linked to the following diseases:
* Rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata type 2 (RCDP2)
* Peroxisomal disorders

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no cure for RCDP2 or peroxisomal disorders. Treatment is mainly supportive and symptomatic. The prognosis of RCDP2 is variable and depends on the severity of the symptoms.

## Drug Response

Currently, there are no specific drugs available to treat RCDP2 or peroxisomal disorders. However, researchers are working to develop new treatments that may target the pathogenesis of these disorders.

## References

1. Braverman N., Zhang R., Chen L., Nimmo G., Scheper S., Tran T., Chaudhury R., Moser A., Steinberg S., Ferdinandusse S., Duran M., Wraith L., Auge J., Wanders R., Sacksteder K. A Pex7 hypomorphic mouse model for plasmalogen deficiency affecting the lens and skeleton. Mol. Genet. Metab. 2017;120:311–322. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2017.03.009.
2. Steinberg S.J., Raymond G.V., Braverman N. Peroxisome Biogenesis Disorders, Zellweger Syndrome Spectrum. Adam M., Ardinger H., Pagon R., Wallace S., Bean L., Stephens K., Amemiya A. (eds) GeneReviews®. University of Washington, Seattle; 1993.
3. Weller S., Gartner J. Peroxisome biogenesis disorders—an update on genetic, molecular and clinical aspects. Biochim. Biophys. Acta. 2006;1763:860–871. doi: 10.1016/j.bbamcr.2006.05.001.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**