---
title: "FANCM"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene FANCM"
tags: ['FANCM', 'DNArepair', 'genomicstability', 'cancer', 'chemotherapy', 'prognosis', 'mutation', 'homologousrecombination']
---

# Information on Gene FANCM

## Gene Position and Aliases
- Gene: FANCM (Fanconi anemia complementation group M)
- Chromosome: 14
- Genomic Location: 14q21.3
- Aliases: C19orf40, Hef ortholog, KIAA1596, bA142O11.1.

## Gene Function
FANCM (Fanconi anemia complementation group M) participates in DNA repair and homologous recombination during DNA replication in human cells. It is important for the maintenance of genomic stability and is involved in the repair of damaged DNA. 

## External IDs and Sites Related to Gene
- HGNC: 29290
- NCBI Entrez: 57697
- Ensembl: ENSG00000128591
- OMIM: 609644
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8IYD8

## Mutation Information
- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID: FANCM mutations lead to an aberrant protein or premature truncation of the protein. Examples of mutations include p.Arg658* (rs398124768) and p.Asp1047fs (rs398124770).
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: FANCM is commonly mutated in various cancers, particularly in breast and ovarian cancers. Examples of somatic mutations include c.5101C>T (rs1465643586) and c.5791A>G (rs55807640).

## Associated Diseases
FANCM mutations have been linked with various conditions such as Fanconi anemia, early-onset breast cancer, and ovarian cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for FANCM gene mutations is typically focused on addressing the associated condition, such as chemotherapy or radiation therapy for cancer. The prognosis for individuals with FANCM mutations varies based on the associated condition and its stage at diagnosis.

## Drug Response
Studies have suggested that FANCM mutations may impact response to certain chemotherapeutic agents, such as platinum-based drugs.

## Related Papers
- Subject: FANCM mutations and their association with cancer
  - Author: Neidhardt, G. et al.
  - DOI link: 10.1007/978-3-319-27482-3_29
- Subject: Fanconi anemia complementation group M
  - Author: Sawyer, S. L. et al.
  - DOI link: 10.1002/humu.23287

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**