---
title: "ST3GAL6"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene ST3GAL6"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'ST3GAL6', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'MissenseMutations', 'Schizophrenia', 'BipolarDisorder', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder']
---

# Information about Gene ST3GAL6

## Genetic Position
Gene symbol: ST3GAL6  
Genomic location: Chromosome 3  
Genomic coordinates: 140,663,178 - 140,677,809  

## Pathology and Function
The ST3GAL6 gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of sialic acid to galactose-containing substrates. This is a crucial step in the biosynthesis of gangliosides, which are important for neural development and function. Mutations or altered expression of ST3GAL6 have been linked to neurological disorders, including schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 11497
- NCBI Entrez: 64801
- Ensembl: ENSG00000181073
- OMIM: 605725
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UNV9

Aliases: SIAT4F, ST3GALVI

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Lys34Asn (rs61751045)
- p.Arg142Gln (rs61753986)
- p.Asn151Ser (rs192504770)
- p.Arg152Gln (rs61751046)
- p.Ala194Pro (rs145889960)
- p.Leu214Phe (rs61755610)
- p.Gly271Ser (rs61753985)

Mutation type: Missense mutations

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.1124G>A (rs201665083)
- c.1127delG (rs542723579)
- c.717C>T (rs868305693)
- c.1417G>A (rs758553509)

## Related Disease
Disorders associated with ST3GAL6 mutations or altered expression include:
- Schizophrenia
- Bipolar disorder
- Parkinson's disease
- Autism spectrum disorder

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for disorders linked to ST3GAL6 mutations or altered expression. Prognosis can vary depending on the specific disorder and individual factors.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response associated with ST3GAL6 mutations or altered expression.

## Related Papers
- **Subject**: Genotyping of schizophrenia patients: glutamate receptor gene (GRM3) and transporter gene (SLC1A1) variants and global DNA methylation.  
**Author Name**: V. D. Mikhaylova, A. N. Kornetova, I. V. Rakhmazova, A. L. Babenko, I. Yu. Nasyrova, A. A. Kornetov, E. A. Grishina, V. V. Morozova, and V. G. Sukhikh.  
**DOI Link**: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/1756-0500-7-27)  

- **Subject**: Relationship between abnormal N-glycosylation and metastasis of human hepatocellular carcinoma.  
**Author Name**: Y. Ozaki, M. Kontani, N. Tada, Y. Yamada, G. Mori, M. Nishimura, K. Sawada, and N. Takahashi.  
**DOI Link**: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M413684200)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**