---
title: "MIR499A"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene MIR499A"
tags: ['MIR499A', 'microRNA', 'geneExpression', 'cardiacFunction', 'cancer', 'disease', 'treatment', 'prognosis']
---

## Information about gene MIR499A

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 19
- Location: 13,183,366 - 13,183,447

### Pathology
- MIR499A has been implicated in various cancers, including prostate cancer, cervical cancer, gastric cancer, and hepatocellular carcinoma.

### Function
- MIR499A is a microRNA that regulates gene expression by targeting mRNA sequences, leading to their degradation or inhibition of translation. It has been shown to play a role in cardiac development and function.
- Gene Ontology (GO) annotations for MIR499A include regulation of transcription, DNA-templated, positive regulation of cardiomyocyte differentiation, and positive regulation of cell proliferation.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 31509
- NCBI Entrez: 406951
- Ensembl: ENSG00000214121
- OMIM: 616918
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: n/a

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- There are no amino acid (AA) mutations reported for MIR499A as it is a microRNA.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are no somatic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) or insertions and deletions (InDels) reported for MIR499A in dbSNP.

### Related Disease
- MIR499A has been found to play a role in various diseases, including cardiovascular disease, cancer, and neurological disorders.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there are no specific treatments targeting MIR499A. Treatment for related diseases would depend on the specific condition.
- The prognosis for diseases related to MIR499A could vary based on the condition.

### Drug Response
- There are no drugs specifically targeting MIR499A.

### References
1. Zhao Y, Samal E, Srivastava D (Mar 2005). "Serum response factor regulates a muscle-specific microRNA that targets Hand2 during cardiogenesis". Nature. 436 (7048): 214–20. doi:10.1038/nature03817.
2. Hunninghake GM, Cho MH, Tesfaigzi Y, Soto-Quiros ME, Avila L, Lasky-Su J, Stidley C, et al. (Aug 2009). "MIR- 449a: a novel genetic determinant of emphysema susceptibility in smokers". American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine. 180 (5): 423–30. doi:10.1164/rccm.200903-0326OC.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**