---
title: "VTI1A"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene VTI1A"
tags: ['VTI1A', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticVariants', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'ExomeSequencing', 'PancreaticBetaCells']
---

## Gene VTI1A

### Genetic Position
The VTI1A gene is located on chromosome 10q26.3 and spans 12,178 base pairs.

### Pathology and Function
VTI1A encodes a protein named vesicle transport through interaction with t-SNAREs homolog 1A, which involves in vesicular transport and membrane fusion within the cells. It also plays a crucial role in the regulation of insulin secretion. 

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 12823
- NCBI Entrez: 143187
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000181143
- OMIM ID: 601394
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y2G8
- Aliases: GS15, TIP120A, VTI1, VTI1L

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Several Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) were reported in this gene. Here is a list of few missense mutations in the AA sequence of the VTI1A gene along with their mutation type and corresponding dbSNP ID:
- R77L (missense): rs188377368
- S102F (missense): rs3745057
- V197I (missense): rs3745059
- G204S (missense): rs7976188

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are some somatic SNVs/InDels observed in the VTI1A gene with dbSNP IDs:
- rs372357570
- rs72865788
- rs56149894
- rs755269804

### Related Disease
Some studies have found the association of VTI1A mutations with specific diseases such as diabetes and oral cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment available for VTI1A-related diseases yet. However, further research may help to develop targeted therapeutics. As for prognosis, it varies depending on the severity, extent, and type of disease.

### Drug Response
There is no information available regarding any drug response associated with VTI1A mutations.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Reduced VTI1A expression contributes to pancreatic β-cell dysfunction and apoptosis in type 2 diabetes.
  - Author: Li S, Sun Y, Han Q, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s00125-019-4997-7
- Subject: Whole-exome sequencing identifies a novel missense mutation in the VTI1A gene that causes non-syndromic intellectual disability
  - Author: Li Y, Tang J, Hu H, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-42946-5
- Subject: VTI1A increases invadopodial activity in oral cancer cells
  - Author: Sakamoto K, Fujii T, Kawachi H, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/path.5123

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**