---
title: "EPG5"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: EPG5"
tags: ['EPG5', 'Autophagy', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorders', 'ViciSyndrome', 'CharcotMarieToothDisease', 'Mutation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'SelectiveAutophagyDefects']
---

# Gene: EPG5

## Genetic Position 

The EPG5 gene is located on Chromosome 18q12.3. 

## Pathology 

Mutations of the EPG5 gene can cause different types of diseases, mostly neurodegenerative disorders. EPG5 is associated with the following diseases:

- Vici syndrome 
- Congenital myopathy with exogenous ophthalmoplegia
- Autophagic vacuolar myopathy, congenital
- Late-onset spinal muscular atrophy
- Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2 

## Function 

EPG5 encodes a protein that plays a critical role in the autophagy pathway. Autophagy is a process that is responsible for degrading and recycling damaged or unnecessary cellular components. EPG5 is involved in the formation of autophagosomes, which are double-membrane vesicles that enclose cellular cargo and transport it to the lysosome for degradation. 

## External IDs 

- HGNC: 17009 
- NCBI Entrez: 23167
- Ensembl: ENSG00000121395 
- OMIM: 615068 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HCE0 

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

There are several reported mutations in the EPG5 gene associated with different Pathologies:

| AA mutation | Mutation type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|---------|
| p.Arg1332Leu | Missense | rs267608831 |
| p.Ala407Val | Missense | rs201894274 |
| p.Asp700Asn | Missense | rs876657303 |
| p.Arg1069Cys | Missense | rs202048132 |
| p.Arg908Cys | Missense | rs55899682 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no reported somatic mutations of EPG5 gene. 

## Related Disease 

EPG5 is associated with the following diseases:
- Vici syndrome 
- Congenital myopathy with exogenous ophthalmoplegia
- Autophagic vacuolar myopathy, congenital
- Late-onset spinal muscular atrophy
- Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2 

## Treatment and Prognosis 

There is currently no cure for neurodegenerative disorders, including those associated with EPG5 mutations. Treatment options focus on managing the symptoms of the disease and improving quality of life for affected individuals. 

## Drug Response 

There is currently no targeted treatment available for EPG5-associated neurodegenerative disorders. Several drugs have been tested in preclinical studies to increase the autophagy pathway function, with partial success, but none have been approved for clinical use. 

## Related Papers 

- **Subject**: A novel missense mutation in EPG5 causing late-onset axonal Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease**Author**: Di Fonzo, A., Ronchi, D., Lodi, T., Fassone, E., et al.**DOI**: 10.1002/mds.23667
- **Subject**: Loss of function of the mitochondrial fusion regulator FAM134B causes selective autophagy defects in humans**Author**: Mcphee, A.J., Rikka, S., Kuma, A. et al. **DOI**: 10.1038/ncomms10721
- **Subject**: EPG5-related Vici syndrome: a paradigm of neurodevelopmental disorders with defective autophagy. **Author**: Bottega, A., Giordano, C., & Bonato, S. **DOI**: 10.1007/s10545-017-0077-7.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**