---
title: "DEFB126"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene DEFB126"
tags: ['GeneDEFB126', 'BetaDefensin126', 'InnateImmuneSystem', 'Oligozoospermia', 'SpermDisorder', 'GeneticVariants', 'VietnamesePopulation', 'SpermFunction']
---

# Information about gene DEFB126

## Genetic position, pathology and function
- **Genetic Position:** DEFB126 is a gene located on human chromosome 20q12 and contains two exons. It belongs to the beta defensin protein family.
- **Pathology:** There is limited evidence on the role of DEFB126 in pathological conditions. However, DEFB126 has been reported to be associated with the risk of developing oligozoospermia, which is a sperm disorder.
- **Function:** DEFB126 encodes for a protein called Beta-defensin 126, which plays a role in the innate immune system by providing protection against harmful microorganisms.

## Gene information
- **Function for gene:** The DEFB126 gene encodes for a protein called Beta-defensin 126, which plays a role in the innate immune system in protecting against harmful microorganisms.
- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 27999
    - NCBI Entrez: 348732
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000278156
    - OMIM: 611409
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q30K80
    - Aliases: DEFB-126, beta-defensin 126, epididymis-specific protein 2

## Mutations
- **AA Mutation List:** There are no known reported AA mutations in the DEFB126 gene.
- **Mutation type with dbSNP ID:** There are no known disease-causing mutations reported in DEFB126.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** There are limited data available on somatic SNVs/InDels in DEFB126.

## Related disease
- **Related Disease:** There is some evidence that DEFB126 may be associated with the risk of developing oligozoospermia, which is a sperm disorder.
- **Treatment and prognosis:** There is no specific treatment for oligozoospermia associated with DEFB126 mutation.
- **Drug response:** Not applicable at this time.

## Related Papers
- Nguyen et al. (2018) studied the association between genetic variants of DEFB126 and oligozoospermia in the Vietnamese population. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3389/fphys.2018.01210)
- Seisenberger et al. (2009) reviewed the role of beta-defensins in sperm function. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/molehr/gap097)
- Yamaguchi et al. (2012) studied the expression of beta-defensin genes including DEFB126 in the human male reproductive tract. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00441-012-1411-4)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**