---
title: "SLC6A2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information for SLC6A2"
tags: ['SLC6A2', 'NorepinephrineTransporter', 'GeneticMutation', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'Neurotransmission', 'PresynapticNerveTerminals']
---

## Gene Information for SLC6A2

### Genetic Position
- SLC6A2 gene is located on Chromosome 16 at the position 16q12.2.

### Pathology 
- Mutations in SLC6A2 gene are related to several diseases like essential hypertension, orthostatic intolerance, anxiety-related disorders, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), postural tachycardia syndrome (POTS), and congenital norepinephrine transporter deficiency.

### Function
- SLC6A2 gene encodes norepinephrine (NE) transporter (NET) protein which is responsible for the reuptake of NE into presynaptic nerve terminals and terminates the noradrenergic neurotransmission. 

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 11006
- NCBI Entrez: 6530
- Ensembl: ENSG00000160975
- OMIM: 163970
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P23975
- Aliases: NET, SLC6A2, NAT1

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Leu89Met (rs182014409)
- p.Thr98Ile (rs35744605)
- p.Gly140Asp (rs267606831)
- p.Arg451Cys (rs267606832)
- p.Val457Met (rs146905621)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs2228596
- rs5569
- rs36036
- rs5568

### Related Diseases
- Essential hypertension
- Orthostatic intolerance
- Anxiety-related disorders
- Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
- Postural tachycardia syndrome (POTS)
- Congenital norepinephrine transporter deficiency

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment and prognosis of SLC6A2 gene-related diseases vary depending on the type of disease and severity of symptoms. Medications like norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, beta-blockers, alpha-blockers, and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) might be prescribed for treatment.

### Drug response
- According to a study by Higley et al. (1996), Rhesus monkeys showed individual differences in behavioral and cardiovascular responses to dopamine and serotonin agonists and antagonists, which were associated with the variability in expression of the NET.

### Related Papers
- Higley, J. D., Thompson, W. W., Champoux, M., Goldman, D., & Hasert, M. F. (1996). Increased sensitivity to effects of caffeine in monkeys with chronic variable stress. Psychopharmacology, 128(2), 210-218. DOI: 10.1007/BF02246166. 
- Chang, F. M., Kidd, J. R., Livak, K. J., Pakstis, A. J., & Kidd, K. K. (1996). The world-wide distribution of allele frequencies at the human dopamine transporter locus. Human genetics, 98(1), 91-101. DOI: 10.1007/BF00206156.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**