---
title: "TAF2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: TAF2"
tags: ['TAF2', 'GeneticDisorders', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'IntellectualDisability', 'BDMR', 'XLID', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene Information: TAF2

## Genetic Position

**TAF2** gene is located on the long (q) arm of chromosome 11 at position 14.1.

## Pathology

Mutations in the **TAF2** gene are associated with different genetic disorders such as brachydactyly mental retardation syndrome (BDMR) and a form of X-linked intellectual disability (XLID). BDMR is an autosomal dominant disorder that causes mental retardation and short fingers and/or toes. XLID involves changes or alterations in this gene that lead to various levels of intellectual disability.

## Function

The gene TAF2 encodes a transcription factor, TATA-binding protein-associated factor 2 (TAF2), which is involved in the formation of the TFIID complex, a general transcription factor essential for the initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase II.

## External IDs

- HGNC: 11589
- NCBI Entrez: 6872
- Ensembl: ENSG00000110330
- OMIM: 313650
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6S5F4

**Aliases**:
- GRINL1A
- TAFII100

## AA Mutation List

There are several AA mutations reported in the TAF2 gene:

| AA Mutation  | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| ------------ | -------------| -------- |
| p.Asp548Asn | Missense | rs267607161 |
| p.Thr1446Pro | Missense | rs746454336 |
| p.Glu48Lys | Missense | rs200451121 |
| p.Arg49His | Missense | rs202120843 |
| p.Ser283Phe | Missense | rs754785023 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

There are somatic SNVs/InDels reported in the TAF2 gene:

| Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| -------------| -------- |
| SNP | rs766799280 |
| SNP | rs200178418 |
| SNP | rs764796673 |

## Related Disease

Mutations in the TAF2 gene are associated with the following diseases:

- Brachydactyly mental retardation syndrome (BDMR)
- X-linked intellectual disability (XLID)

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no specific treatment for genetic disorders caused by the TAF2 gene mutations. Treatment is primarily supportive and symptomatic and may involve special education, physical therapy, speech therapy, and other medical services. Prognosis depends on the severity of the disorder and varies from case to case.

## Drug Response

There is no information about drug response related to TAF2 gene mutations.

**References:**

1. NORD: National Organization for Rare Disorders. (n.d.). Brachydactyly mental retardation syndrome. Retrieved from [Click](https://rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/brachydactyly-mental-retardation-syndrome/)
2. TAF2 Gene. (n.d.). Retrieved from [Click](https://www.genecards.org/cgi-bin/carddisp.pl?gene=TAF2)
3. Mircsof, S. (2019). Brachydactyly-mental retardation syndrome caused by a novel intragenic TAF2 mutation. Human Genome Variation, 6, 1-5. doi: 10.1038/s41439-019-0051-5

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**