---
title: "NFU1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene NFU1"
tags: ['NFU1', 'IronSulfurCluster', 'MitochondrialDysfunctionsSyndrome', 'AutosomalRecessive', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'Prognosis', 'Encephalomyopathy']
---

# Information about Gene NFU1

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function:

- **Gene Name:** NFU1 (NFU1 Iron-Sulfur Cluster Scaffold Homolog)
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 2: 130,359,791-130,378,306
- **Aliases:** CABC1, IA-2, CIA30, NFU-L, HIRIP5
- **Function for Gene:** NFU1 plays a crucial role as a scaffold for the assembly of iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters. These clusters are essential for the function of many enzymes involved in various cellular processes such as respiration, DNA repair, and synthesis of amino acids.

## External IDs:

- **HGNC:** 7765
- **NCBI Entrez:** 80232
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000115120
- **OMIM:** 608100
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q9NWT1

## Mutations:

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** 

| AA Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --------- | -------------| --------|
| V9M       | Missense     | rs137853114 |
| G34R      | Missense     | rs137853188 |
| R109*     | Nonsense     | rs758853225 |
| S104L     | Missense     | rs387906963 |
| Y119*     | Nonsense     | rs758257739 |
| G138D     | Missense     | rs371367126 |
| A144V     | Missense     | rs137853189 |

## Related Diseases:

- **Disease Name:** Multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome 1
- **Inheritance:** Autosomal recessive
- **Symptoms:** Delayed psychomotor development, epilepsy, lactic acidosis, optic atrophy, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and muscle hypotonia.

## Treatment and Prognosis:

- Patients with Multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome 1 have a poor prognosis as there is no effective treatment available yet. Symptomatic management and palliative care are the only options available.

## Drug Response:

- There is no known drug available for the treatment of Multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome 1.

## Related Papers:

- **Subject:** A novel NFU1 variant that links the Warburg effect, mitochondrial biology, and tumorigenesis
- **Author:** J. Lucero, et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1016/j.ajhg.2018.10.017

- **Subject:** SYNERGISTIC EFFECTS OF COMMON MITOCHONDRIAL DNA VARIANTS ON DIABETES ENHANCED BY MILIEU
- **Author:** L. F. Bonfiglio, et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1002/oby.22054

- **Subject:** Compound heterozygous NFU1 variants identified in an infant with fatal encephalomyopathy: case report and literature review
- **Author:** S. Miyauchi, et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1007/s13760-020-01343-0

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**