---
title: "TNFRSF1B"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene TNFRSF1B"
tags: ['TNFRSF1B', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'AntiTNFTherapy', 'InflammatoryResponses', 'GeneticMutations', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis', 'ImmuneSystemRegulation']
---

# Information about gene TNFRSF1B

## Genetic position
The TNFRSF1B gene, also known as tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 1B, is located on chromosome 1q41-q42.

## Pathology
Mutations in the TNFRSF1B gene have been associated with various autoimmune and inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, and multiple sclerosis.

## Function
The TNFRSF1B gene encodes for a protein called TNFR2, which is a receptor for the cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α). TNFR2 plays a critical role in the regulation of immune system and inflammatory responses.

## External IDs and aliases
- HGNC: 11863
- NCBI Entrez: 7133
- Ensembl: ENSG00000117724
- OMIM: 191191
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P20333
- Aliases: TBI, TNF-R-II, TNFBR, CD120b, p75

## AA Mutation list and type with dbSNP ID
- c.1353C>T (p.Thr451Ile) rs4149570
- c.712A>G (p.Tyr238Cys) rs2234649
- c.604A>G (p.Asp202Gly) rs1061622
- c.637T>C (p.Leu213Pro) rs1061623

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.942T>C (p.Ile314Thr) rs1800692
- c.339C>T (p.Thr113Met) rs2229094

## Related disease
- Rheumatoid arthritis
- Crohn's disease
- Multiple sclerosis

## Treatment and prognosis
Treatment for diseases associated with TNFRSF1B mutations includes anti-TNF drugs such as infliximab, adalimumab, and etanercept. The prognosis varies based on the specific disease and severity of symptoms.

## Drug response
Variants in the TNFRSF1B gene have been associated with differential responses to anti-TNF therapy in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

## Related Papers
- Author: Jacob N, et al.
  - Title: “TNFRSF1B SNP rs1061622 associates with increased risk, advanced disease characteristics and decreased remission rates in patients with rheumatoid arthritis”
  - DOI: 10.1186/s13075-017-1272-6
- Author: Mitoma H, et al.
  - Title: “The functional SNP in the TNFRSF1B gene that increases the risk of systemic lupus erythematosus affects immune complex formation between LOX-1 and oxidized LDL”
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.jaut.2008.11.014

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**