---
title: "PIP5K1C"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: PIP5K1C"
tags: ['PIP5K1C', 'gene', 'function', 'mutation', 'disease', 'treatment', 'drugresponse', 'research']
---

## Gene: PIP5K1C

### Genetic Position:
Chromosome: 19

Location: p13.2

### Pathology:
PIP5K1C gene has been associated with several diseases including cancer and neurological disorders.

### Function:
The PIP5K1C gene codes for the phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase type-1 gamma enzyme. This enzyme is involved in the production of lipids that play a role in cell membrane structure, cell signaling, and membrane trafficking.

### External IDs:
- Gene ID: 8394
- Genomic Location: NC_000019.10 (7079983..7174763)
- Aliases: PIP5K1G, PIPKIgammma

### External Sites:
- HGNC: 9182
- NCBI Entrez: 8394
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105209
- OMIM: 605034
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q99755

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- A105V (rs2242044)
- H520Q (rs14085)
- G521D (rs2229616)

### Related Diseases:
- Breast Cancer
- Glioblastoma
- Parkinson's Disease

### Treatment and Prognosis:
There is no current targeted therapy for PIP5K1C mutations. Treatment is typically tailored to the specific disease that the mutation is associated with.

### Drug Response:
There is no current information regarding drug response in relation to PIP5K1C mutations.

### Related Papers:
- Subject: Identification of a novel PIP5K1C mutation in the heterogeneous genetic background of a patient with parkinsonism and obesity.
  - Author: Belarbi, S.
  - DOI: 10.1002/mds.24517

- Subject: A network of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate binding sites regulates gating of the Caenorhabditis elegans TRPV channel.
  - Author: Rohacs, T.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ceca.2019.102310

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**