---
title: "C21orf91"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: C21orf91"
tags: ['C21orf91', 'Chromosome21', 'GeneExpression', 'Cancer', 'CellularSenescence', 'Ubiquitination', 'ATM', 'GeneticFunction']
---

# Gene Information: C21orf91

## Genetic Position
The gene C21orf91 is located on the long arm of chromosome 21 (21q22.3).

## Pathology
There is limited information about the pathology of the C21orf91 gene.

## Function
The function of the C21orf91 gene is currently unknown.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 33497
- NCBI Entrez: 256364
- Ensembl: ENSG00000182887
- OMIM: None
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: None
- Aliases: C21orf91, FLJ36405
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 21: 43,789,346-43,798,542

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There is limited information available about AA mutations for the C21orf91 gene and no dbSNP ID is available.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is limited information available about somatic SNVs/InDels for the C21orf91 gene and no dbSNP ID is available.

## Related Disease
There is no direct association of the C21orf91 gene with any disease, but it has been found to be expressed in various types of cancers.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no information available regarding the treatment and prognosis of any disease associated with the C21orf91 gene.

## Drug Response
There is no information available regarding the drug response of any disease associated with the C21orf91 gene.

## Related Papers
- Subject: C21orf91 gene expression in gastric cancer
  - Author: Guo Y, Chen G, Zhang XS, Wen YH, Wang T, Li MY, Xu L, Yang HJ, Liu YP, Liang XY, Wang SSH, Han Y, Miao L, Wang YX
  - DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v24.i10.1111
- Subject: C21orf91 accelerates cellular senescence by ubiquitinating the Ataxia Telangiectasia mutated protein
  - Author: Gu L, Cui T, Fan C, Liu H, Yin M, Du M, Xie W, Zhang L, Wei R, Liu X, Zhang S, Pang Q, Wang Y, Zhu W
  - DOI: 10.1038/cddis.2017.95

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**