---
title: "TFR2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene TFR2"
tags: ['TFR2', 'IronOverload', 'TransferrinReceptor', 'Hemochromatosis', 'GeneticMutation', 'IronHomeostasis', 'Phlebotomy', 'IronChelatingAgents']
---

## Information about gene TFR2

### Genetic Position:
The TFR2 gene (transferrin receptor 2) is located on the chromosome 7q22.1.

### Pathology:
Mutations in TFR2 gene have been linked to different types of iron overload diseases, including hereditary hemochromatosis type 3 (HFE3), and non-HFE hemochromatosis.

### Function:
The TFR2 gene encodes a protein that acts as a transferrin receptor and is involved in regulating iron homeostasis. It specifically binds to the iron-transport protein transferrin, which allows it to mediate the uptake of iron into cells.

### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 11716
- NCBI Entrez: 7036
- Ensembl: ENSG00000104827
- OMIM: 604720
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UP52

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
- p.Cys282Tyr - Missense variant - rs1800562
- p.Gly323Val - Missense variant - rs11105301

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
None reported in the literature.

### Related Disease:
Hemochromatosis (HFE3), Non-HFE Hemochromatosis

### Treatment and Prognosis:
Treatment options for hemochromatosis typically involve reducing the amount of iron in the body through a process called phlebotomy. This involves regularly removing blood from the patient until their iron levels return to normal. Prognosis for individuals with hemochromatosis is generally good if it is diagnosed and treated early.

### Drug response:
The use of iron chelating agents (e.g. deferoxamine) may be employed in cases where phlebotomy is not an option.

### Related Papers:
- Camaschella C, Roetto A. (2015). "Transferrin receptor 2 in hereditary iron overload disorders and related pathologies". Journal of hepatology. 62(3): 750-62. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2014.11.035.
- Westerman M, Porter J, Badrick T. (2016). "The Role of Frataxin, Transferrin and Ferritin in the Control of Iron Metabolism". Advances in clinical chemistry. 75: 183-213. doi: 10.1016/bs.acc.2016.08.001.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**