---
title: "GABRA5"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene GABRA5"
tags: ['GABRA5', 'GABA', 'receptor', 'anxiety', 'epilepsy', 'SNPs', 'drugresponse', 'neurodevelopmentaldisorders']
---

# Information about Gene GABRA5

## Genetic Position
Gene GABRA5 is located on chromosome 15q11-q13. This region is known for its susceptibility to genomic imprinting and is associated with several neurodevelopmental disorders.

## Pathology
GABRA5 plays a crucial role in the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A receptor-mediated synaptic transmission, which is inhibited in benzodiazepine intoxication, anxiety disorders, and epilepsy.

## Function
The GABRA5 gene encodes for the protein subunit alpha-5 of the GABA type A receptor. These receptors are composed of multiple subunits that form a transmembrane chloride ion channel in response to GABA binding. The alpha-5 subunit is mainly expressed in the hippocampus, which plays a role in learning and memory.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC:  RXRG
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 2558
- Ensembl: ENSG00000165807
- OMIM: 137140
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P31644
- Alias: Gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor subunit alpha-5

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- The GABRA5 gene is known to have several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that result in amino acid changes in the alpha-5 subunit.
- One example is the rs1045280 SNP, which results in a valine to isoleucine substitution at position 220.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There is limited information available regarding somatic mutations in GABRA5.

## Related Diseases
- Epilepsy
- Anxiety disorders
- Substance use disorders

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Benzodiazepines are commonly used to treat anxiety disorders and epilepsy by binding to the GABA type A receptor and increasing its activity.
- The prognosis for individuals with epilepsy or anxiety disorders can vary widely depending on the underlying cause and severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response
- Individual genetic variations in GABRA5 may impact an individual's response to benzodiazepines and other drugs that interact with the GABA type A receptor.

## Related Papers
- Subject: GABRA5 mutations and genetic predisposition to psychiatric disorders
- Author Name: Krestina A. Pokusaeva, Natalia A. Kuznetsova, Victoria I. Garakh, Tatiana V. Sukhanova, Nikolay P. Bondarenko
- DOI Links: [Click](https://doi.org/10.3389/fphar.2019.01284)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**