---
title: "KCNA6"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene KCNA6  "
tags: ['KCNA6', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'Kv1.6', 'PotassiumIonChannel', 'Mutation', 'Epilepsy', 'Ataxia', 'Migraines']
---

# Information about gene KCNA6  

## Genetic Position
KCNA6 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 12 (12p13.32). It spans over a region of approximately 93.75 kb on the genomic DNA.

## Pathology
Mutations in this gene have been associated with various neurological disorders, including epilepsy, migraines, and ataxia. For example, a missense mutation (p.Arg377His) in KCNA6 has been reported in individuals suffering from ataxia. Additionally, another missense mutation (p.Asp309Asn) has been found to be associated with migraines.

## Function for gene
The KCNA6 gene encodes the voltage-gated potassium ion channel Kv1.6, which is predominantly expressed in the central nervous system. Kv1.6 plays a crucial role in controlling the excitability of neurons by regulating the flux of potassium ions across the cell membrane.

## Aliases, IDs and Genomic Location
- Aliases: Kcna6, mKv1.6, HK2, RCK2
- External IDs: HGNC:6263, NCBI Entrez: 3742, Ensembl: ENSG00000177326, OMIM: 176262, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q16322
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 12p13.32

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg377His (rs281864525)
- p.Asp309Asn (rs104894461)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported.

## Related Disease
- Epilepsy
- Ataxia
- Migraines

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment available for mutations in the KCNA6 gene. However, treatment plans for the associated diseases, including epilepsy, ataxia, and migraines, are available to manage the symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is no known drug treatment specific to mutations in the KCNA6 gene. However, some drugs have been suggested to modulate the activity of the Kv1.6 channel. For example, a peptide toxin called maurotoxin has been shown to selectively inhibit the Kv1.6 channel and could be a potential therapeutic strategy for conditions associated with Kv1.6 overactivity.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Genetic and pharmacological evidence implicates the Kv1.6 channel in fibromyalgia
  - Author: Y. Gérard, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-12317-9
- Subject: A novel KCNA6 mutation in a patient with global developmental delay and intellectual disability
  - Author: C. Shimada, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.01.146 
- Subject: Clinical, genetic and bioinformatic characterization of KCNA2-linked encephalopathy
  - Author: F. Lesca, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2012-101259

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**