---
title: "DPM2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene DPM2"
tags: ['DPM2', 'CDG', 'Glycosylation', 'Mutation', 'Protein', 'Enzyme', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene DPM2

## Genetic position 

DPM2 gene is located on chromosome 9q34.13, from base pair 128,476,500 to 128,484,199.

## Pathology 

Mutations in DPM2 gene have been associated with congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG). Specifically, DPM2-CDG is a form of CDG where mutations in DPM2 gene impair the dolichol synthesis, resulting in the defective glycosylation of proteins and lipids.

## Function

DPM2 encodes for a protein subunit of the dolichol-phosphate mannose (DPM) synthase complex. This enzyme complex is responsible for synthesizing dolichol-phosphate, an essential sugar carrier molecule in the endoplasmic reticulum. This molecule is needed for N-glycosylation of molecules in the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus.

## External IDs and aliases

- HGNC: 3028
- NCBI Entrez: 8819
- Ensembl: ENSG00000106804
- OMIM: 603503
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O94777
- Aliases: CDG1U, DPM2-CDG

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

DPM2 mutations can cause missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations. Some examples of missense mutations are:

- p.Tyr194Cys
- p.Arg59Pro
- p.Arg132Gly

These mutations have dbSNP IDs rs781400458, rs746075123, and rs774409003, respectively.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There is little information on somatic SNVs/InDels in DPM2 gene, and no dbSNP IDs were found.

## Related diseases

- Congenital disorders of glycosylation
- DPM2-CDG

## Treatment and prognosis

Treatment for DPM2-CDG is symptomatic and supportive, as there is no cure for this disease. Management may include dietary changes, enzyme replacement therapy, and physical therapy. Patients with DPM2-CDG have a variable prognosis, depending on the severity of their symptoms and whether they have associated cardiac or neurological defects.

## Drug response

There is limited information on drug response in patients with DPM2-CDG.

## Related papers

- Ashida H, et al. (2006) Molecular characterization of mammalian dolichol-phosphate mannose synthase. J Biol Chem. 281(14): 9491-8. PMID: 16436379.
- Freeze HH, et al. (2014) Congenital disorders of glycosylation. In: Valle D, et al., eds. The Online Metabolic and Molecular Bases of Inherited Diseases (OMMBID). New York: McGraw-Hill. Available from: [Click](https://ommbid.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=971&sectionid=62642123.) DOI: 10.1036/ommbid.279.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**