---
title: "TYK2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene TYK2"
tags: ['TYK2', 'JAK', 'immunodeficiency', 'psoriasis', 'hepatitisC', 'interferon', 'drugresponse', 'geneticdisorders']
---

# Gene TYK2

## Information
TYK2 is a protein-coding gene located on chromosome 19q13.2. It encodes a tyrosine kinase that is a member of the JAK family of protein kinases. The protein has an N-terminal FERM domain, an SH2 domain in the middle region, and a C-terminal catalytic domain.

## Function
The protein coded by the TYK2 gene is involved in intracellular signaling pathways that regulate the interferon and cytokine responses. This protein plays an essential role in the JAK-STAT signaling pathway and helps in the activation of signal transduction in response to interleukin-12, interferon-gamma, and type I and II interferons.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 12409
- NCBI Entrez: 7297
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105397
- OMIM: 176941
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P29597

Aliases: JTK1, IMD35, tyrosine kinase 2, JAK kinase

## AA Mutation List
The dbSNP database lists several amino acid mutations for TYK2. Here are some of them:
- R46L (rs34536443)
- I684S (rs34536444)
- E37X (rs28931576)
- E957D (rs34536445)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
dbSNP also has somatic mutations for TYK2 gene. Few of them are:
- rs776090295
- rs768173822
- rs770874161

## Related Diseases
TYK2 mutations can lead to various disorders, including:
- Immunodeficiency 35: a rare immune system disorder that makes children more susceptible to bacterial and viral infections.
- Psoriasis: an inflammatory skin disease caused by the interaction of immune system components, environment, and genetic factors.
- Chronic hepatitis C: a viral infection that affects the liver and causes inflammation, scarring, and liver damage.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for the diseases caused by TYK2 mutations. Still, there are different treatments available to manage the symptoms, depending on the condition. For example, gamma interferon (IFN-γ) is commonly used to treat Immunodeficiency 35.

## Drug Response
Inhibitors of TYK2 are being developed as potential treatments for a range of conditions, including autoimmune disorders and cancer.

## References
- Chen, X., et al. (2016). "Human Tyrosine Kinase 2: Structural and Functional Aspects." Frontiers in Immunology, 7, 473. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2016.00473
- Freeman, A. F. (2019). “The Genetic Basis of Human Primary Immunodeficiency Diseases.” Annual Review of Immunology,  37(1), 739–777. doi: 10.1146/annurev-immunol-042617-053214
- HGNC: 12409. TYK2 'tyrosine kinase 2'. (2021). HUGO Gene Nomenclature Committee. [Click](https://www.genenames.org/data/gene-symbol-report/#!/hgnc_id/HGNC:12409)
- National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI). (2021). TYK2 tyrosine kinase 2 [Homo sapiens]. Gene. [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/7297)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**