---
title: "COG5"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene COG5: "
tags: ['COG5', 'GolgiApparatus', 'CDGII', 'SCA39', 'MissenseMutation', 'MetabolicDisorder', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorder', 'SupportiveTreatment']
---

# Gene COG5: 

- **Genetic Position**: Chromosome 7: 6,175,898-6,202,293 bp 
- **Function of Gene**: The COG5 gene encodes for a subunit of the conserved oligomeric Golgi (COG) complex, which is important for the proper trafficking and sorting of proteins within the Golgi apparatus. 
- **External IDs and Aliases**: 
    - HGNC: 19680 
    - NCBI Entrez: 84447 
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000164839 
    - OMIM: 606989 
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y6T9 

- **AA mutation list and mutation types**: Currently, 15 missense mutations are reported in the COG5 gene, found in various diseases. The mutations include substitutions of amino acids such as alanine, asparagine, arginine, and serine. The mutation types include frameshift, splice site, and stop-gain. Some of the mutations and their dbSNP IDs are listed below:

|Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
|---------|------|----------|
|A634T | Missense | rs869025119 |
|R491C | Missense | rs137852809 |
|E257* | Stop-gain | rs386834139 |

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: No somatic mutations have been reported for the COG5 gene in the dbSNP database.

- **Related Disease**: Mutations in the COG5 gene are associated with various diseases, including:
    - Congenital disorder of glycosylation, type II (CDG-II): COG5 mutations have been found in individuals with CDG-II, a metabolic disorder that affects the glycosylation of proteins and can cause developmental delays, intellectual disability, and other features.
    - Spinocerebellar ataxia 39 (SCA39): A study identified a missense mutation in the COG5 gene in a family with SCA39, a neurodegenerative disorder that affects movement and coordination.

- **Treatment and Prognosis**: There are currently no specific treatments for COG5-related disorders. Treatment is generally supportive and depends on the individual symptoms and severity of the disease. 

- **Drug Response**: There is no information available regarding drug responses specific to COG5-related disorders.

- **Related Papers**: 

    - Sharma, V., et al. (2018). "COG5-CDG: expanding the clinical spectrum."  Clinical genetics 94(3-4): 366-372. PMID: 30105800
    - Shi, C. H., et al. (2016). "Identification of the COG5 mutation in a Chinese family with spinocerebellar ataxia."  Journal of Neurology 263(2): 308-314. PMID: 26590818

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**