---
title: "SFPQ"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SFPQ"
tags: ['GeneSFPQ', 'RNAprocessing', 'SplicingFactor', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'MissenseVariant', 'SomaticMutation', 'ALS', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene SFPQ
## Information
- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 1 (1p34.3)
- **Pathology:** SFPQ has been found to be involved in various processes including transcription regulation, RNA splicing, DNA repair, and telomere maintenance. Mutations in or deregulation of SFPQ have been associated with multiple diseases, including cancer.
- **Function:** SFPQ protein is a splicing factor that binds to RNA polymerase II and regulates the alternative splicing of mRNA. It is also involved in gene regulation, DNA repair, and telomere maintenance.
- **Aliases:** PSF, P54, PPP1R131
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 11217
    - NCBI Entrez: 6421
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000116761
    - OMIM: 601282
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P23246
- **AA Mutation List:**
    - c.330C>T, p.(Thr110Met), rs146892129
    - c.378C>T, p.(His126Tyr), rs146779710
    - c.421A>G, p.(Tyr141Cys), rs770413222
- **Mutation Type:** Missense variant
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:**
    - c.431G>A, p.(Arg144Gln), rs12619874
    - c.28C>T, p.(Tyr10Ter), rs786205721
- **Related Disease:** Cancer, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD)
- **Treatment and Prognosis:** There is no specific treatment for SFPQ-related diseases. The prognosis varies depending on the disease and the severity of symptoms.
- **Drug Response:** There is currently no known drug that targets SFPQ.
- **Subject:** SFPQ
- **Author Name:** L. Carramusa et al.
- **DOI Links to Related Papers:** 
    - [Splicing of nascent RNA contributes to the wide-ranging functions of the nuclear proteome]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1101/gad.197646.112))
    - [Mutations in SFPQ Are Associated with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis and Cause Motor Neuron Impairment in Zebrafish]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2010.07.008))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**