---
title: "PDLIM3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: PDLIM3"
tags: ['PDLIM3', 'MuscleDevelopment', 'Cardiomyopathy', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

## Gene: PDLIM3

### Introduction
PDLIM3 is a gene found in humans that is responsible for encoding the PDZ and LIM domain protein 3. PDLIM3 is located on chromosome 1 at the location 1p36.11.

### Function
The PDLIM3 gene plays a critical role in muscle development and function through its regulation of cardiac and skeletal muscle.

### External IDs

- HGNC: 8855
- NCBI Entrez: 57134
- Ensembl: ENSG00000095332
- OMIM: 608420
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y2J2

### AA mutations and mutation types with dbSNP ID

There are several mutations that have been identified in the PDLIM3 gene. One example is:

- Mutation type: Missense mutation
- AA change: S to T at position 174
- dbSNP ID: rs72958008

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- No somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID have been reported yet.

### Related Disease

Mutations in the PDLIM3 gene have been associated with dilated cardiomyopathy.

### Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment options for dilated cardiomyopathy include medication, surgery, and implantable devices. The prognosis for those with dilated cardiomyopathy varies based on the severity of the condition and the response to treatment.

### Drug Response

There is no available information on drug response for PDLIM3.

### Related Papers

- [PDLIM3 Mutations Cause Eccentric Remodeling and Dilated Cardiomyopathy.]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.111.070868)) Circulation, vol 124, no. 5, 2011.
- [Three novel mutations in the PDLIM3 gene in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy.]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11033-010-0254-y)) Molecular Biology Reports, vol 38, no. 8, 2011. 

##### Author: seonyoung
##### DOI: N/A

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**