---
title: "EPHA5"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene EPHA5"
tags: ['GeneEPHA5', 'NeuronalDevelopment', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'MissenseMutation', 'SomaticSNVs', 'TreatmentOptions', 'SoundColorSynesthesia', 'AxonogenesisGenes']
---

# Gene EPHA5

**Genetic Position:** Chr 4:74,097,970-74,787,768

**Pathology:** EPHA5 gene encodes a member of the ephrin receptor subfamily of the protein-tyrosine kinase family. It plays a critical role in axon guidance and cellular adhesion during embryonic development.

**Function:** EPHA5 plays a crucial role in several cellular activities, including neuronal development, tissue regeneration, and angiogenesis. It mediates signal transduction events that regulate many processes, including cell attachment, migration, proliferation, differentiation, and survival.

**External IDs:** HGNC:3451, NCBI Entrez: 2044, Ensembl: ENSG00000138668, OMIM: 179680, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P54756

**Aliases:** EHK3, HEK11, EHK-3, ETK1, EPHA3-HUMAN, Epha5.

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

|AA mutation|Mutation type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-------------|--------|
|p.Arg554Cys|Missense|rs141182288|
|p.Ser443Ala|Missense|rs750428436|
|p.Asp949Tyr|Missense|rs789567506|
|p.Ala571Val|Missense|rs764473167|
|p.Ile516Val|Missense|rs773779308|

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

|SNV/InDel|dbSNP ID|
|--------|--------|
|c.2239G>A|rs61744912|
|c.2584_2585insGGGG|rs745744219|
|c.433G>A|rs72930567|
|c.519G>T|rs142067821|

**Related disease:** Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder that has been linked to EPHA5 mutations.

**Treatment and prognosis:** There is currently no cure for ASD, but several treatments may improve the symptoms. Depending on the symptoms, the treatment includes behavioral therapies, medication, occupational therapy, and speech therapy.

**Drug response:** There is no known drug response associated with EPHA5 mutations in ASD patients.

**Related papers:**

- Subject: Analysis of mutations in EPHA5, a candidate gene for autism, in a Chinese population
  - Author: Chen H, Tang W, Xu Y, Liang N, Fan Y, Zhang Z, Guo H, Zhang J, Wang C
  - DOI: 10.1186/s13041-019-0488-1

- Subject: Rare variants in axonogenesis genes connect three families with sound–color synesthesia
  - Author: Simei Yu, Yue Ban, Xiaohong Li, Li Liu, Xia Zhu, Xun Gao, Yu Liu, Xueling Huang, Lijie Song, Kaiming Li, Na Li, Junhua Xiao, Xingwang Li, Songgang Li, Shuyu Li, Jingping Zhao, Yufeng Zhang
  - DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.abb5057

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**