---
title: "FANCE"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: FANCE"
tags: ['FANCEgene', 'Fanconianemia', 'DNAdamage', 'geneticmutation', 'bonemarrowtransplant', 'cancer', 'immunology', 'lungcancer']
---

## Gene: FANCE

- Function: The FANCE gene provides instructions for making a protein that is part of a larger protein complex called the Fanconi anemia (FA) core complex. This complex is involved in repairing damaged DNA and preventing the breakdown of genetic material during replication.

- External IDs: HGNC: 3556; Entrez Gene: 2178; Ensembl: ENSG00000117153; OMIM: 613899; UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HB96. FANCE gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 6 at position 26.2.

- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
    * c.1054delC (p.Pro352fs) - rs755535054 
    * c.124A>G (p.Asn42Asp) - rs797045850
    * c.109C>T (p.Gln37Ter) - rs121908682
    * c.615_616delAT (p.Met206fs) - rs863225973
    * c.364T>G (p.Cys122Gly) - rs373202669

- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
    There are no somatic mutations reported in FANCE gene with dbSNP ID.

- Related disease:
    Mutations in FANCE gene can cause Fanconi anemia, Autosomal Recessive type 3. This disease is characterized by bone marrow failure, increased risk of cancer, and physical deformities.

- Treatment and prognosis:
   Treatment of Fanconi anemia varies depending on the symptoms of the person. A bone marrow transplant is the only treatment available that can cure the disease.

- Drug response:
   No specific drug response is reported for FANCE gene.

- Related papers:
    * Author: Kim Y et al., Title: "FANCE mutation reveals its role as a suppressor of the TLR7/9-dependent type I IFN induction pathway", Journal: European Journal of Immunology, DOI: 10.1002/eji.201847951
    * Author: Wang W et al., Title: "Genetic variants of the FANCE gene may contribute to the genetic susceptibility of non-small cell lung cancer", Journal: Oncology Letters, DOI: 10.3892/ol.2019.11024

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**