---
title: "NPY2R"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['NPY2R', 'NeuropeptideY', 'MetabolicDisorders', 'Obesity', 'Diabetes', 'Hypertension', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene Information

**Gene Name:** NPY2R (Neuropeptide Y receptor Y2)

**Function of Gene:** The NPY2R gene encodes for a protein that acts as a receptor for neuropeptide Y (NPY) which plays a role in regulating appetite, feeding behavior, and circadian rhythm.

**External IDs and Genomic Location:**

- HGNC: 7951
- NCBI Entrez: 4888
- Ensembl: ENSG00000198607
- OMIM: 162641
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P49146

The NPY2R gene is located on chromosome 4q31.3.

**Aliases:** NPY-Y2 receptor, NPY2 receptor, NPY2-R, Y2 receptor, PP1

## Mutations

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**

- The missense mutation **p.Leu39Val** in the NPY2R gene has been reported in the dbSNP database with the ID rs1047218.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There is no available information on somatic SNVs/InDels in the NPY2R gene.

## Related Disease

The NPY2R gene is associated with obesity, diabetes, hypertension, and several other metabolic disorders. Some studies have found that mutations in this gene may play a role in the pathogenesis of these diseases.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there are no specific treatments available that target the NPY2R gene. However, several drugs that affect NPY signaling are being developed as potential treatments for obesity and other metabolic disorders.

## Drug Response

Studies have shown that drugs that target NPY receptors, including the NPY2R gene, may have potential therapeutic benefits for metabolic disorders such as obesity, diabetes, and hypertension.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Neuropeptide Y receptor Y2 (NPY2R) mutations cause autosomal recessive congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles (CFEOM2)
  - Author name: Yamada K, Andrews C, Chan WM, McKeown CA, Magli A, de Berardinis T, Lozano R, Pomeroy SL, Demer JL, and Engle EC
  - DOI link: [[Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng1943](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng1943))
  
- Subject: Neuropeptide Y2 receptor (NPY2R) variants are associated with lower adiposity levels and increased lipolysis in European children and adolescents
  - Author name: Heude B, Plateau CR, Ndiaye NC, Kerner O, Girardet JP, Roussel R, Balkau B, and Grandjean P
  - DOI link: [[Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ijo.2014.85](https://doi.org/10.1038/ijo.2014.85))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**