---
title: "EIF2AK3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# **EIF2AK3 Gene Information**"
tags: ['EIF2AK3', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticPosition', 'Pathology', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# **EIF2AK3 Gene Information**
---

### **Genetic Position**

EIF2AK3 (Eukaryotic Translation Initiation Factor 2 Alpha Kinase 3) is a gene found on the human chromosome 2q11.2.

### **Pathology and Function**

EIF2AK3 gene encodes an enzyme called PERK (RNA-activated protein kinase). This enzyme is involved in regulating protein synthesis initiation in response to stress signals. PERK acts as a control knob to decrease the protein synthesis rate and protect cells from being damaged by harmful signals or stresses. EIF2AK3 gene mutations can interfere with the regulation of protein synthesis and trigger various cellular processes involved in unfolded protein response (UPR) pathways and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the pathogenesis of Wolcott-Rallison syndrome (WRS) and some cancers.

### **External IDs and Aliases**

- HGNC ID: HGNC:3320
- NCBI Entrez: 9451
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000143546
- OMIM ID: 606374
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9NZJ5

Aliases: PRKR-like ER Kinase (PERK), Eukaryotic Translation Initiation Factor 2 Alpha Kinase 3, Pancreatic eIF2α kinase (PEK)

### **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID**

|AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|Gly961Arg | Missense | rs104894603|
|Gln49* | Non-sense | rs267606990|
|Ile252Val | Missense | rs267606991|
|Pro707Leu | Missense | rs267607033|

### **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**

There are currently no somatic SNVs/InDels in EIF2AK3 gene that are listed in dbSNP.

### **Related Diseases**

- Wolcott-Rallison syndrome (WRS)
- Ovarian cancer
- Colorectal cancer
- Melanoma 

### **Treatment and Prognosis**

Currently, there is no specific treatment for WRS caused by the mutation in the EIF2AK3 gene. Instead, treatment focuses on managing symptoms like hypoglycemia, infection, malabsorption, and liver dysfunction. For cancers associated with the EIF2AK3 gene mutation, treatment options may include chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and immunotherapy. The prognosis for WRS and cancers associated with the EIF2AK3 gene mutation largely depends on the severity of the disease, age of onset, and individual symptoms.

### **Drug Response**

There has been no documented evidence of drug response based on the genetic changes in the EIF2AK3 gene.

### **Subject, Author Name, DOI links to Related Papers**

- Author: Nans A, et al. (2019), Title: PERK-Dependent Expression of JNK1 and BNIP3 Supports Poly (ADP-Ribose) Polymerase 1 (PARP1) Activation, Apoptosis Induction, and Neurodegeneration Downstream of Rotenone-Induced Mitochondrial Dysfunction, DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.8b00568.

- Author: Li J, et al. (2021), Title: Transcriptional regulation of PERK in Shigella flexneri-induced apoptosis of IEC-6 cells and colitis mice, DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110122.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**