---
title: "SLC6A13"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: SLC6A13"
tags: ['SLC6A13', 'Neurotransmitter', 'Transporter', 'NeurobehavioralDisorders', 'ADHD', 'BipolarDisorder', 'Depression', 'Treatment']
---

# Gene: SLC6A13

SLC6A13 is a gene that encodes a protein known as sodium-dependent noradrenaline transporter (NET). This protein is involved in the reuptake of norepinephrine (also known as noradrenaline) from the extracellular fluid into presynaptic neurons, which is essential for the termination of noradrenergic signaling.

## Function for gene

The SLC6A13 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is primarily found in neurons that use norepinephrine as a neurotransmitter. The protein functions as a transporter, which means that it moves norepinephrine from outside of the neuron back into the neuron so that it can be reused.

## External IDs and Genomic Location

- HGNC: 10981
- NCBI Entrez: 6537
- Ensembl: ENSG00000106866
- OMIM: 604741
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P23975
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 12q24.11

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

The following are the amino acid mutations list and mutation type with the corresponding dbSNP ID for the SLC6A13 gene.

|Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|--------|-------------|--------|
|A13V|Missense|rs34619410|
|R340H|Missense|rs267606692|
|R357H|Missense|rs267606691|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

Currently, there is no information regarding somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID for the SLC6A13 gene.

## Related Disease

Mutations in the SLC6A13 gene have been associated with various neurobehavioral disorders, including attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), bipolar disorder, and major depression.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is limited information regarding the treatment and prognosis of disorders associated with SLC6A13 gene mutations. However, treatments for ADHD and bipolar disorder mainly involve the use of medications such as stimulants, antidepressants, and mood stabilizers.

## Drug Response

There is no conclusive evidence regarding drug response related to SLC6A13 gene mutations.

## Related Papers

- Author Name: Holmes, A., Yang, R. J., Murphy, D. L., & Crawley, J. N.
  DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1460-9568.2002.01995.x)
  
- Author Name: Landaas, E. T., Johansson, S., & Jacobsen, K. K.
  DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1399-5618.2011.00897.x)
  
- Author Name: Macey, T. A., Gurel, V., Eans, S. O., & Sah, R.  
  DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neures.2016.07.010)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**