---
title: "PTGIS"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PTGIS"
tags: ['PTGIS', 'ProstacyclinSynthase', 'CardiovascularDisease', 'Mutation', 'PulmonaryHypertension', 'RaynaudPhenomenon', 'Epoprostenol', 'Selexipag']
---

# Information about Gene PTGIS

## Genetic Position
The gene PTGIS is located on chromosome 20, specifically at the location 20q13. 11.

## Pathology
Mutations in the PTGIS gene are associated with a variety of cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension, myocardial infarction, and stroke.

## Function
The PTGIS gene encodes for a protein called prostacyclin synthase which is an enzyme involved in the synthesis of prostacyclin. Prostacyclin is a type of eicosanoid that plays an important role in blood vessel dilation and inhibiting platelet aggregation. 

## External IDs
- Gene ID: 5742
- Genomic location: NC_000020.11 (30800397..30830225)
- Aliases: CYP8A1, CYP8A3, CytP450-Is, PGI2-S, PGIS, prostacyclin synthase

## External Sites
- HGNC: 9586
- NCBI Entrez: 5742
- Ensembl: ENSG00000125845
- OMIM: 601542
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P47196

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- R249H: Missense mutation (rs1057910)
- L334F: Missense mutation (rs1057911)
- L364P: Missense mutation (rs149650937)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.983G>A: Missense mutation (rs200355309)
- c.1183C>T: Missense mutation (rs187074554)
- c.1463A>G: Missense mutation (rs764214554)

## Related Disease
PTGIS gene mutations have been associated with pulmonary hypertension and primary Raynaud phenomenon.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are currently no treatments that specifically target the PTGIS gene. However, some medications such as epoprostenol (a synthetic form of prostacyclin) can be used to alleviate some of the symptoms associated with the diseases caused by PTGIS gene mutations.

## Drug Response
There is limited information available regarding drug response specific to PTGIS gene mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Genetic variation in the prostacyclin synthase gene and risk of cardiovascular disease
  - Author: Gong Y, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2015.06.111
- Subject: Targeting the prostacyclin pathway with selexipag in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension receiving double combination therapy: Insights from the randomized controlled GRIPHON study
  - Author: Sitbon O, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2016.08.032

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**