---
title: "SPARC"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene SPARC"
tags: ['GeneSPARC', 'Function', 'AssociatedDiseases', 'Mutations', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information on Gene SPARC

## Gene Information
- **Gene Name**: SPARC (Secreted Protein Acidic and Rich in Cysteine)
- **Aliases**: Basement-membrane protein 40, Osteonectin, Secreted modular calcium-binding protein 2, and Hevin
- **Genomic Location**: 5q31.3
- **External IDs**: HGNC:11283, NCBI Entrez: 6678, Ensembl: ENSG00000120738, OMIM:182120, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P09486

## Function
- SPARC is a secreted protein that is involved in cell attachment, migration, proliferation, and differentiation. It is also involved in the regulation of ECM (Extracellular Matrix) assembly and remodeling. 
- SPARC is a non-structural protein and does not have an enzymatic function.

## Associated Diseases
- SPARC is associated with different diseases such as cancer, Alzheimer's disease, and osteoporosis. 
- It also has a role in the inflammatory response and tissue healing.

## Mutations
- SPARC gene has different mutations that affect its function.
- AA (Amino Acid) mutation: Cysteine (C) to Tyrosine (Y) at position 47 (C47Y)
- Mutation Type: Missense, Common Polymorphism (rs1126616)
- Somatic SNVs/InDels: -
- dbSNP ID: rs1126616

## Treatment and Prognosis
- As SPARC is involved in different diseases, its treatment and prognosis depend on the disease and its stage. 
- In cancer, elevated levels of SPARC indicate a poor prognosis. However, drugs targeting SPARC are still under clinical trials.

## Drug Response
- There are no FDA-approved drugs that specifically target SPARC. 
- However, preclinical studies have shown that drugs targeting SPARC can have anti-tumor effects.

## Related Papers
- Subject: The Function of SPARC in Cancer
- Author: Chang, B., Rangaswami, H., & Hecht, R.
- DOI: 10.1155/2018/9420274

- Subject: SPARC in Alzheimer's disease 
- Author: Giridharan, V. V., Thandavarayan, R. A., & Sari, Y.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2017.05.008

- Subject: Effect of SPARC on bone remodelling in osteoporosis
- Author: Tang, J., Yan, S., Cui, H., & Wu, W.
- DOI: 10.1186/s12891-020-3255-6

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**