---
title: "AGXT"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene AGXT"
tags: ['AGXT', 'GeneticDisorder', 'PH1', 'LiverTransplantation', 'Allopurinol', 'OxalateAccumulation', 'GlyoxylatePathway', 'MetabolicProcess']
---

# Information about gene AGXT

## Genetic Position
The AGXT gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 2 at position 23.3.

## Function for gene
The AGXT gene provides instructions to make alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase enzyme. This enzyme plays a crucial role in a metabolic process called the glyoxylate pathway, which helps to break down and eliminate harmful waste products in the liver and kidneys.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 361
- NCBI Entrez: 189
- Ensembl: ENSG00000121691
- OMIM: 604285
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P21549

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Gly170Arg (rs121912679)
- p.Ala244Thr (rs121912680)
- p.Arg41His (rs200979656)
- p.Gly41Arg (rs121912678)
- p.Val157Met (rs139494899)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.769G>A (rs148421947)
- c.676A>G (rs758075054)

## Pathology
Mutations in the AGXT gene can lead to a rare genetic disorder called primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1). PH1 is characterized by the accumulation of oxalate in the kidneys and other organs, leading to kidney stones, kidney damage, and other complications. 

## Related disease
- Primary hyperoxaluria type I (PH1)

## Treatment and prognosis
PH1 is a progressive, life-threatening disorder and the mainstay of treatment is liver transplantation with or without combined kidney transplantation as needed. In some cases, a drug called pyridoxine (vitamin B6) may be helpful.

## Drug response
Allopurinol, a medication used to treat gout, has shown promise in reducing the formation of oxalate crystals in some patients with PH1.

## Related papers
- Author: Danpure CJ and Jennings PR
- Title: Peroxisomal alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase deficiency in primary hyperoxaluria type 1.
- DOI: 10.1038/ng0592-40

- Author: Richard Poulsen, Chao-Kai Hsu, and Runas Powers
- Title: Hyperoxaluria, Primary.
- DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-12-801238-3.65605-7

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**