---
title: "SCP2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SCP2"
tags: ['GeneSCP2', 'LipidTransport', 'CholesterolMetabolism', 'InheritedDisorders', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'StructuralBasis', 'HepaticLipidRegulation']
---

# Gene SCP2

## Information

The SCP2 (sterol carrier protein 2) gene is located on the chromosome 1 at the position 1p32.3. It is also known as the Non-Specific Lipid-Transfer Protein (nsL-TP), or Porcine Heart Fatty Acid-Binding Protein (H-FABP).

The SCP2 protein interacts with different types of lipids, including cholesterol, fatty acids and sphingolipids, and it plays an important role in their transport and metabolism.

## Function

The main function of SCP2 is to facilitate the transfer of different types of lipids between membranes within the cell, and between cells, allowing them to be transported to different parts of the body. SCP2 is also involved in cholesterol metabolism and has been shown to play a role in fatty acid oxidation.

## External IDs and aliases

- HGNC: 10580
- NCBI Entrez: 6341
- Ensembl: ENSG00000116984
- OMIM: 184757
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P22307
- Aliases: FABP1, FABPL (Fatty Acid Binding Protein, Liver)

## Mutations

- c.526C>T (p.Arg176Ter); rs199836911
- c.550C>T (p.Thr184Met); rs145665935
- c.71C>T (p.Pro24Leu); rs374512329

## Related diseases

Mutation in SCP2 is associated with different inherited disorders, including:

- Congenital bile acid synthesis defect 5 (CBAS5)
- Holoprosencephaly 9 (HPE9)
- Progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis 4 (PFIC4)

## Treatment and prognosis

The treatment and prognosis of SCP2-associated disorders vary depending on the specific condition and the severity of the symptoms. There is currently no cure for SCP2-related disorders, and treatment is mainly focused on managing symptoms and preventing complications.

## Drug response

The response of SCP2-related disorders to specific drugs is yet to be determined, as there are currently no targeted therapies available for these conditions.

## Related papers

- Subject: Structural basis of the mechanisms underlying sterol carrier protein X (SCPx) and fatty acid binding protein (FABP) inhibition.
  - Author: Nakatania Y, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2007989117

- Subject: Disruption of Sterol Carrier Protein-X Expression Alters Hepatic Lipid Regulation.
  - Author: Swinnen JV, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/jcb.29917

- Subject: New Mutations in Sterol Carrier Protein X (SCPx) Gene in a Child with Diffuse Cortical Necrosis.
  - Author: Zarnighian F, et al.
  - DOI: 10.4274/balkanmedj.2014.0213

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**