---
title: "SLC26A3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SLC26A3"
tags: ['GeneSLC26A3', 'ChlorideLosingDiarrhea', 'IonTransport', 'CongenitalDisease', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene SLC26A3

## Information:

- **Genetic Position:** 7q31.1
- **Function for gene:** SLC26A3 encodes for a protein involved in regulating chloride and bicarbonate secretion in the colon and plays a significant role in ion and water absorption.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in SLC26A3 can lead to congenital chloride-losing diarrhea (CLD), a rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by chronic watery diarrhea, dehydration, and electrolyte imbalances.
- **Aliases:** DRA, TDD, CLD, DIAR4 
- **External IDs and Genomic Location:**
    - HGNC: 11005
    - NCBI Entrez: 1810
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000106546
    - OMIM: *126650*
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y5I8

## Mutation Information:
- **AA Mutation List with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID:**
   - p.Ile296Met (Missense) - rs104896675
   - p.Gly238Ser (Missense) - rs2241390
   - p.Val498Phe (Missense) - rs1057519998
   - p.Leu466Pro (Missense) - rs1057523086
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** None reported till now. 

## Related Disease:
- **Disease Name:** Congenital chloride-losing diarrhea (CLD).
- **Inheritance:** Autosomal recessive.
- **Symptoms:** Chronic watery diarrhea, dehydration, and electrolyte imbalances.
- **Causative mutations:** Variants in SLC26A3 gene are known to cause CLD.

## Treatment and Prognosis:
- There is no definitive cure for CLD, but the main goal of treatment is to manage the symptoms and prevent dehydration. Treatment includes electrolyte and fluid replacement and a high-salt diet.
- With appropriate treatment, many individuals with CLD experience significant symptom relief, and their prognosis can be good.

## Drug Response:
- The drug response data for SLC26A3 is limited to only one drug, Sulfate, which has been tested for its potency to inhibit the transport activity of SLC26A3. 

## Related Papers:
- Author: Cutz, E., Casey, R., Harding, G. and Dimmick, J.E.
  - Title: Congenital chloride-losing diarrhea in a family of Mexican descent.
  - Journal: Gastroenterology.
  - Year: 1972.
  - DOI: [10.1016/S0016-5085(72)80187-3]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0016-5085(72)80187-3))

- Author: Schweinfest, C.W., Henderson, K.W., Suster, S., Kondoh, N., Papas, T.S. and Dawson, P.A.
  - Title: Identification of a colon mucosa gene that is down-regulated in colon adenomas and adenocarcinomas.
  - Journal: PNAS.
  - Year: 1993.
  - DOI: [10.1073/pnas.90.9.4166]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.90.9.4166))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**