---
title: "HOXA2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene: HOXA2"
tags: ['HOXA2', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'EmbryonicDevelopment', 'BirthDefects', 'HearingLoss', 'FacialAbnormalities', 'GeneticMutations', 'TreatmentOptions']
---

### Gene: HOXA2
    
- Function: HOXA2 is a transcription factor that plays a key role in embryonic development, particularly in the development of the nervous system, the inner ear, and the face. It regulates the expression of a variety of downstream genes involved in these processes. Mutations in HOXA2 have been associated with various birth defects, including hearing loss and facial abnormalities. 

- External IDs:
    - Gene ID: 3207
    - Genomic location: Chromosome 7:27,684,421-27,686,969
    - Aliases: HOX1, HOX1C
    
- External sites:
    - HGNC: 5117
    - NCBI Entrez: 3207
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000106375
    - OMIM: 604685
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P31268
    
- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
    - c.262T>C (p.Leu88Pro), rs193922548
    - c.456G>A (p.Arg152His), rs76995589
    - c.480C>A (p.Pro160His), rs794727299
    - c.491C>T (p.Arg164Trp), rs200496121
    - c.1102G>A (p.Arg368Gln), rs141729668
    
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: Currently, there are no known somatic mutations in HOXA2.
    
- Related disease: Mutations in HOXA2 have been associated with autosomal dominant non-syndromic hearing loss (ADNSHL), cleft palate, and facial dysmorphism syndromes such as Hand-Foot-Genital Syndrome (HFGS), which is a rare autosomal disorder characterized by skeletal malformations of the hands and feet, urogenital abnormalities, and characteristic facial features. 
    
- Treatment and prognosis: There is currently no cure for genetic mutations affecting HOXA2. Treatment options depend on the specific birth defect or syndrome associated with the mutation and may include hearing aids, surgery, or physical therapy.
    
- Drug response: There is currently no known specific drug that targets HOXA2 directly.
    
- Related papers:
    - Subject: A novel missense mutation of HOXA2 gene in a Chinese family with autosomal dominant nonsyndromic hearing loss
    - Author name: Bai-Lin Wu, Hui-Min Ma, Qing-Wen Zhu, Xue-Ting Huang, Yue-Qin Zheng, and Dong-Yi Han
    - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.3389/fgene.2019.01005)
    
    - Subject: A novel nucleotide variant in HOXA2 gene causing autosomal-dominant non-syndromic hearing loss
    - Author name: Jin Zhao, Hao Wu, Ying Xu, Sixian Zhou, and Chenhua Wang
    - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12881-020-01095-8)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**