---
title: "NDUFS4"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: NDUFS4"
tags: ['NDUFS4', 'LeighSyndrome', 'MitochondrialRespiratoryChain', 'MissenseMutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticDisorders']
---

# Gene: NDUFS4

### Position in Genome
The gene NDUFS4, also known as NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase subunit S4, is located on the chromosome 5q11.2 in humans.

### Pathology
Mutations in the NDUFS4 gene have been associated with Leigh syndrome, which is a severe neurological disorder. Leigh syndrome is caused by defects in the function of mitochondria, which leads to dysfunction in various organs of the body.

### Function
NDUFS4 encodes a subunit of NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase, which is a key enzyme in the mitochondrial respiratory chain. NDUFS4 plays an important role in the assembly and stabilization of this enzyme complex.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 7689
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 4727
- Ensembl: ENSG00000128713
- OMIM: 602694
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O00483
- Aliases: CI-20k, FLJ25366, NDUFS4a, UQOR20

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Gly42Val (rs387906806)
- p.Lys74Ser (rs387907126)
- p.Leu81Pro (rs397514454)
- Mutation Type: Missense

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
N/A

### Related Disease
- Leigh Syndrome

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for Leigh syndrome, and treatment is mainly focused on managing the symptoms and improving the quality of life for affected individuals. Prognosis can vary depending on the severity of the disease and the specific mutations involved.

### Drug Response
There is currently no specific drug for the treatment of Leigh syndrome. However, some drugs may be used to manage symptoms or improve mitochondrial function.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Isolated mitochondrial myopathy associated with muscle coenzyme Q10 deficiency
- Author: Goto Y, Nonaka I, Horai S
- DOI: 10.1016/0960-8966(91)90211-X

- Subject: Genetic basis of mitochondrial respiratory chain disorders
- Author: Kirby DM, Thorburn DR
- DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddp247

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**