---
title: "PHLDA2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PHLDA2"
tags: ['GenePHLDA2', 'Cancer', 'Apoptosis', 'CellGrowth', 'TumorSuppressor', 'miRNA', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene PHLDA2

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Genetic position**: PHLDA2 is located on the long arm of chromosome 11 (11q13.1).
- **Pathology**: Aberrant expression of PHLDA2 has been implicated in various cancers, including breast, ovarian, and prostate cancer.
- **Function**: PHLDA2 (Pleckstrin homology-like domain, family A, member 2) is involved in the regulation of apoptosis and cell growth.

## Gene Information
- **External IDs**: HGNC: 18208, Entrez Gene: 5330, Ensembl: ENSG00000149476, OMIM: 603350
- **Aliases**: TSSC3, TDAG51, TP53I3

## AA Mutation and Type with dbSNP ID
- No AA mutation with dbSNP ID has been reported for PHLDA2 gene to date.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID have been reported for PHLDA2 gene to date.

## Related Disease
- Aberrant expression of PHLDA2 has been implicated in various cancers, including breast, ovarian, and prostate cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- The treatment and prognosis of cancer associated with PHLDA2 expression depend on the specific cancer type and stage. More research is needed to determine the clinical significance of PHLDA2 expression in cancer treatment and prognosis.

## Drug Response
- No information is available about drug response specifically related to the expression of PHLDA2 in cancer.

## Related Papers
- Tsuchiya, N., Izumiya, M., Ogata-Kawata, H., Okamoto, K., Fujiwara, Y., Nakai, M., ... & Kohno, T. (2013). Tumor suppressor miR-22 determines p53-dependent cellular fate through post-transcriptional regulation of p21. Cancer research, 73(14), 4628-4639. [DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-12-4479]
- Lu, Y., Thomson, J. M., Wong, H. Y., Hammond, S. M., & Hogan, B. L. (2007). Transgenic over-expression of the microRNA miR-17-92 cluster promotes proliferation and inhibits differentiation of lung epithelial progenitor cells. Developmental biology, 310(2), 442-453. [DOI: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2007.08.007]

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**