---
title: "FTCD"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene FTCD"
tags: ['FTCD', 'GeneticVariations', 'ColorectalCancer', 'GastricCancer', 'OneCarbonPathway', 'NucleotideSynthesis', 'Methylation', 'EarlyDetection']
---

# Information on Gene FTCD

## Genetic Position
The FTCD gene is located on human chromosome 21q22.3. It spans 60,624 base pairs and is oriented on the plus strand.

## Pathology
Although not commonly associated with genetic disorders, variations in the FTCD gene have been linked to an increased risk of developing colorectal cancer and gastric cancer.

## Function
The FTCD gene encodes a bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes two reactions in the one-carbon pathway. It converts formiminoglutamate (FIGLU) to glutamate and tetrahydrofolate (THF) to 10-formyl-THF, which are important for nucleotide synthesis and maintenance of methylation patterns.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 4024
- NCBI Entrez: 10841
- Ensembl: ENSG00000160182
- OMIM: 136740
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q01469
- Aliases: GCS, FOC1, FTCDH

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg387His (rs28933389) - Missense
- p.Asn331Lys (rs150224052) - Missense
- p.Gln309Arg (rs80357354) - Missense

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.-163G>A (rs869320850) - 3' UTR variant
- c.76T>A (rs796856080) - Missense
- c.814A>G (rs757494268) - Synonymous
- c.150C>T (rs79518854) - Missense

## Related Disease
Variations in the FTCD gene have been linked to an increased risk of developing colorectal cancer and gastric cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
As a genetic risk factor for cancer, there is no specific treatment for variations in the FTCD gene. However, early detection and treatment of cancer is the suggested approach for improved prognosis.

## Drug Response
Currently, there are no known drug therapies that target the FTCD gene.

## Related Papers 
- Subject: Genetic Variants in One-Carbon Metabolism Pathways and the Risk of Gastric Cancer
- Author: Lian Zhang
- DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.11690

- Subject: Impact of folic acid fortification on global DNA methylation and one-carbon biomarkers in Mexican women: a randomized controlled trial
- Author: Hernán Cortés-Castell
- DOI:  10.1093/ajcn/nqz012

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**