---
title: "AQP5"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: AQP5"
tags: ['AQP5', 'Aquaporin', 'WaterTransport', 'SalivaryGlandDysfunction', 'DryEyeSyndrome', 'PulmonaryEdema', 'CancerTherapy', 'Exosome']
---

# Gene: AQP5

## Information

- **Function:** AQP5 encodes a member of the aquaporin family of water-selective membrane channels. It is expressed in many tissues and organs. The protein promotes water transport across cell membranes.

- **Genomic location:** Chromosome 12q13.3

- **Aliases:** Aquaporin-5, AQP-5, MIP 

- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 634
    - NCBI Entrez: 362
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000007923
    - OMIM: 601498
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13520

- **AA mutation list:**
    - V111M (rs3763043)
    - T259A (rs3759129)
    - T259M (rs3759128)

- **Mutation type:** Missense

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:** No reported somatic SNVs/InDels.

- **Related disease:** AQP5 mutations have been associated with salivary gland dysfunction, dry eye syndrome and pulmonary edema.

- **Treatment and prognosis:** Treatment for AQP5 related diseases includes dry eye treatments, such as artificial tears or anti-inflammatory drugs, and management of pulmonary edema, including oxygen therapy and diuretics. However, more research is needed to determine the prognosis of AQP5 related diseases.

- **Drug response:** Research suggests that exosome-delivered AQP5 may play an important role in response to cancer therapy.

## References

- Morishige, N., & Sonoda, K. H. (2019). Aquaporin-5 in the Eye and Its Implication for Eye Diseases. International journal of molecular sciences, 20(18), 4383. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms20184383)

- Cabiati, M., Martino, A., Alemanni, M., Caselli, C., Matteucci, M., Ruggeri, S., … Del Ry, S. (2019). Exosome-Delivered Aquaporin-5 Downregulation Promotes Epithelial–Mesenchymal Transition and Invasiveness in Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer Cells. Cells, 8(11), 1371. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/cells8111371)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**