---
title: "PPARG"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PPARG"
tags: ['GenePPARG', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'MetabolicDisorders', 'InsulinResistance', 'Type2Diabetes', 'Thiazolidinediones', 'DrugResponse', 'CardiovascularComplications']
---

# Information about Gene PPARG

## Genetic Position
The gene PPARG is located on chromosome 3 at the position 12.32.

## Pathology
Mutations in the PPARG gene have been associated with various diseases such as insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, obesity, and atherosclerosis.

## Function
The PPARG gene encodes for the Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) protein which is a transcription factor that plays a crucial role in regulating adipocyte differentiation, glucose and lipid metabolism, and inflammation.

## External IDs
- Gene ID: 5468
- Genomic Location: 3p25.2
- Aliases: NR1C3, PPARgamma

## External Sites 
- HGNC: 9238
- NCBI Entrez: 5468
- Ensembl: ENSG00000132170
- OMIM: 601487
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P37231

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg425Cys: missense mutation, rs1801282
- p.Pro467Leu: missense mutation, rs1801284
- p.Pro12Ala: missense mutation, rs1805192

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.34C>G: synonymous mutation, rs17817202
- c.1436C>T: missense mutation, rs362307

## Related Disease
- Insulin Resistance
- Type 2 Diabetes
- Obesity
- Atherosclerosis

## Treatment and Prognosis
Agonists of PPARγ, such as thiazolidinediones (TZDs) have been used to treat type 2 diabetes and related metabolic disorders. However, prolonged use of these drugs is associated with adverse effects such as weight gain, edema, and cardiovascular complications.

## Drug Response
Individuals with the p.Pro12Ala polymorphism in the PPARG gene may have a better response to treatment with TZDs compared to those without the mutation.

## Related Papers
- Meirhaeghe et al. (1998) PPARγ haplotypes, obesity, and type 2 diabetes. **DOI:** 10.1038/10056
- Luan et al. (2001) Evidence for gene-nutrient interaction at the PPARγ locus. **DOI:** 10.1038/oby.2001.4
- Julve et al. (2014) PPARγ Genetic Variability and Cardiovascular Disease. **DOI:** 10.3390/ijms15021385

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**