---
title: "AFP"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene AFP"
tags: ['GeneAFP', 'Chromosome4q25', 'AlphaFetoprotein', 'LiverCancer', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'Pathology']
---

# Information about gene AFP

## Position and Pathology   
The AFP (Alpha-fetoprotein) gene is located on chromosome 4q25 and encodes a protein alpha-fetoprotein, which is mainly produced by the developing liver during fetal development. The AFP gene is associated with various pathologies such as hepatocellular carcinoma, liver cirrhosis, and yolk sac tumors.

## Function for Gene    
The AFP gene encodes alpha-fetoprotein protein, which plays an essential role in the transport of essential fatty acids, toxins, and other important molecules between the developing fetus and mother. Additionally, it helps in the renal transport of blood proteins to prevent damage to the renal tubules.

## External IDs and Aliases    
- HGNC ID: 274
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 174
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000142615
- OMIM ID: 615267
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P02771
- Aliases: FETA, HPAFP

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID    
- p.Ala109Thr (rs72613567)
- p.Ala171Ser (rs28933279)
- p.Ala160Val (rs28933278)
- p.Asn223Lys (rs28933280)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID    
- rs34392457
- rs139703441
- rs150887984
- rs397514712

## Related Disease    
The AFP gene is associated with various diseases such as liver cancer, hepatic cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, and yolk sac tumors. 

## Treatment and Prognosis    
The treatment and prognosis of diseases related to the AFP gene depend on the stage and severity of the disease. It involves surgical intervention, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy. 

## Drug Response    
There are several drugs on the market that target the AFP gene for the treatment of liver cancer, including Nexavar (sorafenib), Stivarga (regorafenib), and Lenvima (lenvatinib).

## Related Papers    
- Liu, Y. T., et al. “Alpha-fetoprotein-producing adenocarcinoma of the stomach: A case report.” Medicine, vol. 97, no. 37, 2018, doi: [10.1097/MD.0000000000012197]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1097/MD.0000000000012197).)
- Ho, C. L., et al. “Prognostic value of pre-operative serum alpha-fetoprotein level in resectable hepatocellular carcinoma.” Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, vol. 19, no. 3, 2004, pp. 309–313., doi: [10.1111/j.1440-1746.2004.03320.x]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1440-1746.2004.03320.x).) 

**Note:** This information is for educational purposes only, and medical diagnosis and treatment should only be performed by licensed healthcare professionals.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**