---
title: "IDUA"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene IDUA"
tags: ['GeneIDUA', 'MPSI', 'EnzymeReplacementTherapy', 'GeneTherapy', 'HematopoieticStemCellTransplantation', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'Mucopolysaccharidoses']
---

# Information about Gene IDUA

## Gene Position, Aliases, and Function 
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 4: 102,931,681-102,966,839
- Gene ID: 3425
- Aliases: Alpha-L-iduronidase, MPS1, IDA
- Function: The IDUA gene encodes alpha-L-iduronidase enzyme which is responsible for the degradation of heparan sulfate and dermatan sulfate. Defects in IDUA lead to the accumulation of these substrates in lysosomes, causing a group of inherited metabolic disorders called mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I).

## External IDs and Sites
- HGNC: 5390
- NCBI Entrez: 3425
- Ensembl: ENSG00000134057
- OMIM: 252800
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P35475

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type
- p.Arg89Cys: Missense Mutation (rs104894490)
- p.Arg89His: Missense Mutation (rs121434584)
- p.Ala300Val: Missense Mutation (rs79704422)
- p.Tyr161Cys: Missense Mutation (rs28940868)
- p.Tyr375Ter: Nonsense Mutation (rs137853281)
- p.Trp402Ter: Nonsense Mutation (rs80358222)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic mutations in the IDUA gene.

## Related Disease
- Mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I): A rare inherited metabolic disorder characterized by the accumulation of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) due to IDUA enzyme deficiency. MPS I is categorized into three subtypes namely Hurler syndrome (severe form), Hurler-Scheie syndrome (intermediate form), and Scheie syndrome (mild form). Patients with MPS I experience a wide range of symptoms including skeletal deformities, developmental delay, hearing loss, and enlargement of liver and spleen.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Enzyme Replacement Therapy: IDUA enzyme replacement therapy has been developed to alleviate the symptoms of MPS I.
- Gene Therapy: Researchers have found that the treatment of MPS I by gene therapy is safe and effective.
- Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation: Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation has also been used to treat MPS I.
- Prognosis: The prognosis for individuals with MPS I varies depending on the severity of the subtypes, onset, and severity of the symptoms. Life expectancy and quality-of-life can be improved by early diagnosis and proper treatment.

## Drug Response
There are no medications specifically indicated for MPS I. However, some medications such as pain relievers, anti-inflammatory drugs, and antibiotics can be used to treat the symptoms of MPS I.

## Papers and Authors
- Subject: Gene Therapy for Mucopolysaccharidoses
  - Author: Perlov et al.
  - DOI: 10.3390/genes12010024
- Subject: The Genetics of Mucopolysaccharidosis Type IH: A Comprehensive Review of Mutations and Molecular Genetics
  - Author: Gabrielli et al.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s10545-011-9319-0

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**