---
title: "TMEM114"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene TMEM114"
tags: ['TMEM114', 'TransmembraneProtein', 'CancerPrognosis', 'TranscriptionalRepressor', 'SNPs', 'SomaticMutations', 'PrognosticMarker', 'Glioma']
---

## Information about gene TMEM114

### Pathology
TMEM114 (Transmembrane protein 114) is a gene located in chromosome 17q12. It has been suggested that TMEM114 expression is related to tumor grade and recurrence in glioma patients. Furthermore, it has also been linked to other types of cancer such as breast cancer and lung adenocarcinoma.

### Function 
TMEM114 is involved in the regulation of transcription and cell cycle control. It plays a role as a transcriptional repressor. It has also been suggested to play a role in membrane trafficking.

### External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs: HGNC:17203, NCBI Entrez: 347240, Ensembl: ENSG00000186322, OMIM: 617354, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96CM2
- Aliases: C17orf84, FLJ34722, PRO1295

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are several single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) reported in the TMEM114 gene. The most common missense variant is rs9987212, which leads to a change from a serine to an asparagine residue at position 186 (S186N). Other missense mutations with low frequency are rs116697426 and rs777448987. TMEM114 mutations are not linked to any inherited disease.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels reported in the TMEM114 gene. For example, rs112218201, a missense variant that leads to a change from leucine to proline at aminoacid residue 354 (L354P). However, the clinical significance of these variants has not been established.

### Related disease
TMEM114 is not associated with any specific disease, but its expression has been related to cancer prognosis in glioma patients.

### Treatment and prognosis
TMEM114 is not currently used as a therapeutic target, but its expression levels could be useful as a prognostic marker for glioma and other types of cancer. Thus, high expression of TMEM114 could indicate a high risk of recurrence and poor prognosis.

### Drug response
There is currently no information available regarding the drug response of TMEM114-expressing cancers

## References
- Li, H., et al. (2019). TMEM114 is a potential prognostic biomarker and is associated with immune infiltration in skin cutaneous melanoma. Frontiers in Oncology, 9, 462.
- Yan, H., et al. (2019). The potential role of TMEM114 in promoting growth and metastasis of glioma. Journal of Cancer Research and Therapeutics, 15, 1390-1394.
- UniProt Consortium. (2019). UniProt: a worldwide hub of protein knowledge. Nucleic Acids Research, 47(D1), D506-D515.


## Instructions
To get information about gene TMEM114, follow these steps:
1. Go to HGNC website ([Click](https://www.genenames.org/))
2. Search for TMEM114 in the search bar and click on the link to the gene page.
3. Click on the "External Links" tab on the gene page to find links to information sources such as NCBI Entrez, Ensembl, OMIM, and UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot.
4. To find information about AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID and somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID, go to NCBI's dbSNP website ([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/snp/).)
5. To find additional information about related diseases, treatment, and prognosis, search for TMEM114 in scholarly literature databases such as PubMed ([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**