---
title: "SEZ6L2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SEZ6L2"
tags: ['SEZ6L2', 'SynapticAdhesion', 'Neurodevelopment', 'Autism', 'Epilepsy', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Schizophrenia', 'ADHD']
---

# Information about Gene SEZ6L2

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

SEZ6L2 gene is located on the long (q) arm of chromosome 16 at position 24.3. It is associated with various pathologies including Seizures, Epileptic encephalopathy, Autism spectrum disorder, Intellectual disability, Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, Schizophrenia, among others. The function of the SEZ6L2 gene is involved in synaptic adhesion, neuronal function, and neurodevelopment.

## Gene Information

- **Function:** Synaptic adhesion
- **Aliases:** Seizure-related gene 6-like protein 2, KIAA1804, seizure-related 6 homolog-like 2 protein.
- **External IDs:** 
  - HGNC: 14088
  - NCBI Gene ID: 387119
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000150836
  - OMIM: 611452
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8IUE6

## Mutations and Polymorphisms

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|-------------|
| T68A | Missense | rs34577642 |
| Q294* | Nonsense | rs372658499 |
| S697N | Missense | rs140420739 |
| K1566N | Missense | rs374703896 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are currently no somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID identified for SEZ6L2 gene.

## Related Diseases

SEZ6L2 gene mutations and polymorphisms have been associated with various diseases such as:

- Autism spectrum disorder
- Epileptic encephalopathy
- Intellectual disability
- Schizophrenia
- Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder

## Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no specific treatment for SEZ6L2-related diseases. However, treatment mainly focuses on managing the symptoms of the diseases. The prognosis of SEZ6L2-related diseases depends on the specific condition and the severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response

There is no known drug response for SEZ6L2-related diseases.

## Related Papers

- Subject: De novo mutations in seizure-related genes in sudden unexpected death in epilepsy: Topographical distribution and implications for genetic analysis.
  - Author names: Pfeiffer, L.N., Dorn, T., Jurkowski, W. et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0237439)

- Subject: Clustering of Seizure-Associated Gene Mutations in a Mouse Model of Autism and Epilepsy.
  - Author names: Adams, H.L., Webster, R., Malzer, E. et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2019.02.044)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**