---
title: "GRHL1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene GRHL1 Information"
tags: ['GRHL1', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'CellDifferentiation', 'CleftLip', 'NeuralTubeDefects', 'BladderCancer', 'GeneticDisorders', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene GRHL1 Information

## Genetic position, Pathology, and Function

- **Genetic Position:** GRHL1 is located on chromosome 2q22.3.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in the GRHL1 gene have been associated with numerous disorders, including cleft lip and palate, neural tube defects, spina bifida, and bladder cancer.
- **Function for Gene:** The GRHL1 gene codes for a transcription factor protein that plays a critical role in regulating cell differentiation and development.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location

- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 14006
    - NCBI Entrez: 57822
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000144843
    - OMIM: 608576
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NZC2
- **Aliases:** TFCP2L3, CP2-like protein 3, transcription factor CP2-like 3
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 2q22.3

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- No AA mutation list with dbSNP ID is available.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- No somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID is available.

## Related Disease

- Mutations or dysregulation in the GRHL1 gene have been associated with numerous disorders, including cleft lip and palate, neural tube defects, spina bifida, and bladder cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- There is currently no targeted treatment for disorders associated with GRHL1. Treatment options for associated disorders are based on the specific symptoms and severity of the condition.
- Prognosis varies widely depending on the associated disorder.

## Drug Response

- No drug response is available for GRHL1-associated disorders.

## Related Papers

- Liu H, Zhao W, Yan Y, Luo Y, Zhao Y (2019). "Low Expression of Grainyhead-Like Transcription Factor-1 Is Correlated with Poor Prognosis for Patients with Bladder Cancer". Med Sci Monit. 25: 861-868. doi: 10.12659/MSM.914386. PMID: 30787425.
- Kousa YA, Schutte BC (2016). "Toward an Identification of the Genetic Basis for Bilateral Cleft Lip with or without Cleft Palate". Semin Orthod. 22: 152-165. doi: 10.1053/j.sodo.2016.03.001. PMID: 27422562.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**