---
title: "PRKCSH"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene PRKCSH"
tags: ['GenePRKCSH', 'AutosomalDominantPolycysticLiverDisease', 'LiverFunction', 'Mutation', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'LiverTransplantation', 'GeneticCharacterization', 'ClinicalManagement']
---

# Gene PRKCSH

## Genetic Position
The PRKCSH gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 19 (19q13.2). 

## Pathology 
Mutations in the PRKCSH gene are associated with Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Liver Disease (ADPLD).

## Function
The PRKCSH gene encodes for a protein called protein kinase C substrate 80K-H (PRKCSH) which plays a crucial role in maintaining normal liver function by regulating the transport of proteins and fluids in liver cells.

## External IDs 
- HGNC: 9365 
- NCBI Entrez: 55856 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105180 
- OMIM: 177060 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96QU6 

## AA Mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.1960G>A (p.G654D) rs180177046
- c.1766C>T (p.S589F) rs104893894

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Unavailable

## Related Disease
Mutations in PRKCSH gene are associated with Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Liver Disease (ADPLD). ADPLD is characterized by the presence of multiple cysts in the liver which lead to liver enlargement, abdominal discomfort and severe health complications.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The management of ADPLD is mainly supportive and focused on managing complications such as infection, rupture and bleeding of cysts. In severe cases, liver transplantation may be required.

## Drug Response
Unavailable

## Related Papers
- Li A, Davila S, Furu L, et al. Mutations in PRKCSH cause isolated autosomal dominant polycystic liver disease. Am J Hum Genet. 2003;72(3):691-703. doi:10.1086/368204
- Beneze, F., Boulanger, V., Gueudet, P. et al. Clinical and genetic characterization of a French population with autosomal dominant polycystic liver disease. Orphanet J Rare Dis 13, 49 (2018). [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13023-018-0785-z)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**