---
title: "PJVK"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: PJVK"
tags: ['PJVK', 'DFNB59', 'HearingLoss', 'HairCells', 'Mutation', 'GeneticDisorder', 'TreatmentOptions', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene: PJVK

## Genetic Position
PJVK is located on chromosome 2 at the position 2q37.3.

## Pathology
Mutations in the PJVK gene are associated with DFNB59 - a genetic disorder that is characterized by hearing loss.

## Function
PJVK encodes proteins that play a role in the development and maintenance of hair cells. Hair cells are sensory cells in the inner ear that detect sound.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 18593
- NCBI Entrez: 25803
- Ensembl: ENSG00000171870
- OMIM: 607101
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96KG9

Aliases: DFNB59, DFNB59A

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID
- p.W99X (rs141812506)
- p.R107H (rs1426654)
- p.E238K (rs16974844)
- p.R397S (rs141850928)

Mutation types: missense, nonsense

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No known somatic mutations.

## Related Disease
DFNB59-associated hearing loss

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are currently no known cures or treatments for DFNB59-associated hearing loss. Treatment options may include hearing aids or cochlear implants.

## Drug Response
Currently, there is no known drug response for DFNB59-associated hearing loss.

## Related Papers
- Shearer, A. E., Hildebrand, M. S., Webster, J. A., Kahrizi, K., Meyer, N. C., Jalalvand, K., ... & Bahlo, M. (2010). Mutations in the first MyTH4 domain of MYO15A are a common cause of autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness DFNB3. _The American Journal of Human Genetics, 87(2), 170-177_. DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2010.06.012
- Nal, N., Ahmed, Z. M., Erkal, E., Alper, O. M., Luleci, G., Dinçer, A., ... & Tekin, M. (2007). Mutational spectrum of MYO15A: the large N-terminal extension of myosin XVA is required for hearing. _Human Mutation: Mutation in Briefs, 28(11), 1014-1019_. DOI: 10.1002/humu.20582

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**