---
title: "WASF3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information on Gene WASF3 "
tags: ['WASF3', 'actincytoskeleton', 'oncogene', 'cancer', 'prognosis', 'cellmotility', 'celladhesion', 'drugresponse']
---

## Information on Gene WASF3 

### Genetic Position

* WASF3 (WASP family member 3) is located on chromosome 13 at the position q12.3.

### Pathology

* WASF3 overexpression has been reported in several types of cancer, including breast, colorectal, and lung cancers, among others, suggesting its role as an oncogene. 
* Up-regulation of WASF3 has been shown to promote cell migration and invasion, two hallmarks of cancer progression.

### Function

* WASF3 encodes a protein that belongs to the WASP (Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein) family of proteins, which are involved in the regulation of actin cytoskeleton dynamics.
* Specifically, WASF3 is a regulator of actin polymerization that is essential for cell motility, cell adhesion, and cell-cell communication.

### External IDs and Aliases

* Gene ID: 10163
* HGNC ID: 12603
* Ensembl ID: ENSG00000125269
* OMIM ID: 605127
* Alias: WAVE3

### Variant Information

* No missense mutations have been reported for WASF3 in cancer according to COSMIC database.
* Somatic SNVs and InDels for WASF3 can be found in the COSMIC database, but none have a dbSNP ID assigned to them.

### Related Diseases

* Aberrant expression of WASF3 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple types of cancer, including colorectal and breast cancers.

### Treatment and Prognosis

* There is no approved therapy specifically targeting WASF3.
* High expression of WASF3 has been associated with poor prognosis in certain types of cancer, including colorectal cancer.

### Drug Response

* No drugs have been specifically designed to target WASF3 activity.

### References

* Zhang et al. (2017) [WAVE3 promotes cell growth and metastasis in triple-negative breast cancer by upregulating Fosl1 expression via Akt/mTOR signaling](https://doi.org/10.1038/cddis.2016.468))
* Xu et al. (2016) [WAVE3 contributes to oxaliplatin resistance through the stabilization of FAK and Mcl-1 in hepatocellular carcinoma](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.canlet.2016.07.034))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**