---
title: "KCNK9"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: KCNK9"
tags: ['KCNK9', 'PotassiumChannel', 'MissenseMutation', 'Cancer', 'Hypertension', 'Schizophrenia', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene: KCNK9

### Basic Information
* Function: The KCNK9 gene encodes a member of the two-pore domain potassium channel protein family, which plays a role in regulating the resting membrane potential of cells.
* External IDs: 
    - HGNC ID: HGNC:6241
    - NCBI Entrez ID: 3799
    - Ensembl ID: ENSG00000114540
    - OMIM ID: 605654
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9Y691
* Aliases: 
    - TALK1
    - K2p9.1

### Gene Mutation
* AA Mutation: There are several amino acid (AA) mutations found in the KCNK9 gene associated with different diseases, including the G236C mutation and the R157W mutation.
* Mutation Type: Missense mutation
* dbSNP ID: rs79642821

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
* Somatic SNVs/InDels: There are several somatic SNVs/InDels found in the KCNK9 gene associated with different types of cancers, including lung cancer, bladder cancer, and breast cancer.
* dbSNP ID: rs3731050, rs794226320, rs756630129, rs778125654

### Related Diseases
* Related Diseases: The KCNK9 gene has been associated with several diseases, including hypertension, schizophrenia, and cancer.
* Hypertension: Studies have shown that the KCNK9 gene may play a role in regulating blood pressure and may be a potential target for treating hypertension.
* Schizophrenia: Studies have also shown that the KCNK9 gene may be implicated in the development of schizophrenia, as it is expressed in the brain and plays a role in regulating neuronal excitability.
* Cancer: The KCNK9 gene has been implicated in the development and progression of several types of cancers, including lung, bladder, and breast cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis
* There is currently no specific treatment targeting the KCNK9 gene mutations. Treatment options typically involve targeting the underlying disease or condition associated with the KCNK9 gene mutations.
* Prognosis for individuals with mutations in the KCNK9 gene can vary depending on the associated disease or condition.

### Drug Response
* There are currently no drugs specifically targeting the KCNK9 gene mutations. However, research is ongoing to identify potential therapeutics for targeting the KCNK9 pathway in diseases such as hypertension and cancer.

### Related Papers
* Related to hypertension: 
    - Subject: Regulation of Blood Pressure by KCNK9 in Mice: Implications for Human Hypertension (DOI: 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.113.02379)
* Related to schizophrenia: 
    - Subject: Evidence for association of schizophrenia with genetic variation in the 8p21.3 gene, PPP3CC, encoding the calcineurin gamma subunit (DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2005.06.005)
* Related to cancer: 
    - Subject: KCNK9 Expression Predicts Lung Cancer Survival: Mitochondrial Control of Apoptosis (DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0003911)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**