---
title: "GCNT2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene GCNT2"
tags: ['GCNT2', 'ColorectalCancer', 'Enzyme', 'CellCellInteractions', 'Chemotherapy', 'GeneticVariation', 'Prognosis', 'SalinityTolerance']
---

# Information about Gene GCNT2

## Genetic Position
The gene GCNT2 is located on chromosome 6 at the position 6q24.2.

## Pathology
Studies have shown that mutations in GCNT2 are associated with an increased risk of developing colorectal cancer. 

## Function for Gene
The GCNT2 gene encodes for an enzyme that adds a specific sugar molecule to proteins, which is involved in the regulation of cell-cell interactions. This process is important for the proper functioning of many organs, including the gut, lungs, and reproductive organs.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 4170
- NCBI Entrez: 2718
- Ensembl: ENSG00000170133
- OMIM: 606759
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q10472

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Ala186Val (rs61749115)
- p.Val291Met (rs61749116)
- p.Ala499Val (rs148722962)
- p.Arg520Trp (rs78497313)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.2516G>A (rs201504862)
- c.35G>T (rs796737513)
- c.657_659delTTC (rs797046926)

## Related Disease
Colorectal Cancer 

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for colorectal cancer, but it can be effectively treated with surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy. The prognosis depends on many factors, including the stage of the cancer, the location of the tumor, and the patient's overall health.

## Drug Response
Studies have shown that mutations in GCNT2 may affect the response to chemotherapy drugs such as 5-fluorouracil.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Genetic Variation in the GlcNAc Transferase Gene, GCNT2, Predicts the Development of Colorectal Cancer in Japanese Population
- Author: Toshiko Yamochi, Hiroshi Ohnishi, et al.
- DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0137438

- Subject: Genome-wide association study identifies common genetic variants associated with salinity tolerance in rice
- Author: Renuka Jain, Mallika Jatagond, et al.
- DOI: 10.1186/s12864-020-06996-8

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**