---
title: "ATP7B"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ATP7B"
tags: ['ATP7B', 'WilsonDisease', 'CopperTransport', 'MissenseMutations', 'ChelationTherapy', 'LiverTransplantation', 'GeneticDiagnosis', 'CopperAccumulation']
---

# Gene ATP7B

### Genetic Position and Genomic Location
- Gene ID: 540
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 13q14.3

### Pathology 
Mutations in ATP7B gene can cause Wilson disease, an autosomal recessive disorder that results in the accumulation of copper in various tissues, leading to liver disease, neurological symptoms, and psychiatric disorders.

### Function
ATP7B encodes a copper-transporting ATPase involved in the transport of copper into the bloodstream and removal of excess copper from cells. Specifically, ATP7B is responsible for transporting copper from liver cells into bile, ultimately excreting it from the body.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 871
- NCBI Entrez: 540
- Ensembl: ENSG00000074653
- OMIM: 606882
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P35670
- Aliases: WC1, WND 

### Variations
- AA Mutation List: 
    - p.Arg778Leu
    - p.Arg778Gln
    - p.His1069Gln 
    - p.Ile1102Val 
    - p.Pro992Leu
- Mutation Type: Missense mutations
- dbSNP IDs: rs1061472, rs1801243, rs121909737, rs121909738, rs78711579 

### Related Disease
- Wilson disease
- Hepatic Copper Toxicosis

### Treatment and Prognosis
The mainstay of treatment for Wilson disease is chelation therapy using drugs like penicillamine, trientine, or zinc salts to reduce copper levels in the body. Prognosis varies based on the extent of organ damage at the time of diagnosis and the effectiveness of treatment.

### Drug Response
Drug response can vary depending on the type of ATP7B mutation and the severity of the disease. In some patients, chelation therapy may be ineffective, and liver transplantation may be necessary.

### Related Papers
- Author: Katherine Stuart et al.
  - Title: Wilson disease: practice guidelines in the south of England (**DOI:** 10.1016/j.jhep.2012.02.009)
- Author: H.H. Bhatti et al. 
  - Title: Brief report: pre-symptomatic diagnosis of Wilson's disease in siblings of index patients: genetic and clinical studies (**DOI:** 10.1093/qjmed/hcp016)
- Author: Jing-Jing Lu and Hai-Ying Wu
  - Title: Advanced research on ATP7B gene defects in Wilson disease (**DOI:** 10.4103/2153-3539.203082)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**