---
title: "ZDHHC9"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['ZDHHC9', 'Palmitoyltransferase', 'IntellectualDisability', 'SynapticTransmission', 'Mutation', 'XChromosome', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

## Gene Information

The gene **ZDHHC9** is located on the **X chromosome** at position **Xq26.2** and is also known by the aliases **DHHC-9** and **HIP2**. The gene has a **coding sequence length of 2073 bp** and encodes a **269 amino acid protein**.

## Function

The protein encoded by ZDHHC9 belongs to the DHHC palmitoyltransferase family and is responsible for adding a lipid called palmitate onto proteins, which can affect their cellular localization and function. Specifically, ZDHHC9 has been shown to be involved in the palmitoylation of several proteins, including PSD-95 and DAT, which are involved in synaptic signaling and dopamine transport, respectively.

## External IDs and Resources

- HGNC: 13094
- NCBI Entrez: 57117
- Ensembl: ENSG00000168611
- OMIM: 300768
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9GZS3

## Mutations

- c.619G>A (p.A207T) with dbSNP ID rs75023161

## Related Disease

Mutations in ZDHHC9 have been associated with **X-linked intellectual disability** due to impaired synaptic transmission.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no cure for X-linked intellectual disability, but support and education can be provided to those affected and their families.

## Drug Response

There is no specific drug treatment for X-linked intellectual disability caused by mutations in ZDHHC9.

## Related Papers

- Tarpey, P. S. et al. (2009). A systematic, large-scale resequencing screen of X-chromosome coding exons in mental retardation. Nat. Genet. 41, 535–543. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.367)
- Fang, C et al. (2017). ZDHHC9-ERK1/2-eNOS signaling cascade promotes the development of vasculogenic erectile dysfunction in diabetic rats. Journal of cellular physiology, 232(9), 2449–2463. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/jcp.25720)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**