---
title: "APCDD1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: APCDD1"
tags: ['APCDD1', 'WntSignalingPathway', 'ColorectalCancer', 'Mutation', 'GWAS', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: APCDD1

## Overview
APCDD1 is the abbreviation for Adenomatosis Polyposis Coli Down-Regulated 1. This gene is located on chromosome 18q21.1, spans a length of 9.68 kb, and consists of seven exons. The gene product is a transmembrane protein that plays a vital role in the Wnt signaling pathway.

## Function
APCDD1 is a negative regulator of the Wnt signaling pathway, which plays a crucial role in embryonic development and tissue homeostasis. This gene product is also involved in the downregulation of β-catenin, which is a major transcriptional co-activator of the Wnt pathway.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
- **HGNC**: HGNC: 24521
- **NCBI Entrez**: 147495
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000114742
- **OMIM**: 608831
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: Q8IVF5
- **Aliases**: 
  - Adenomatosis Polyposis Coli Down-Regulated 1
  - Down-Regulated by APC Protein 1
  - DKFZp434J0818

## Mutations
- **AA mutation list with mutation type and dbSNP ID**: 
  - p.Asp99Gly (missense, rs61758367)
  - p.Pro248Leu (missense, rs122618003)
  - p.Val257Met (missense, rs142108125)
  - p.Ala294Val (missense, rs150294195)
  - p.Pro303Leu (missense, rs142301978)
  - p.Ala308Thr (missense, rs200014933)
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**:
  - Chr18:33890575 (rs369452751)
  
## Related Disease
Mutations in the APCDD1 gene have been associated with the development of Colorectal Cancer (CRC). Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have shown that single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the APCDD1 gene region are associated with an increased risk of CRC.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis for patients with APCDD1 mutations depend on the severity of the mutations and the associated disease. In the case of CRC, treatment options may include surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy. The prognosis varies depending on the stage of the cancer at diagnosis and the patient's response to treatment.

## Drug Response
Currently, there are no drugs specifically targeting APCDD1. However, therapeutic strategies targeting the Wnt signaling pathway are under investigation and may hold potential as a treatment for APCDD1-related diseases.

## Related Papers
- **Subject**: APCDD1 Gene Mutation
- **Author Name**: Zhang M, Huang W, Ou Y, Fang Q, Chen S, Xu X
- **DOI Links**: 
  - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phrs.2020.104796)
  - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.07.06.20146470)
  - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-16-0198)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**