---
title: "STX11"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['STX11', 'Syntaxin11', 'FHL4', 'ImmunosuppressiveTherapy', 'BoneMarrowTransplant', 'NonsenseMutation', 'SpliceSiteMutation', 'FrameshiftMutation']
---

## Gene Information
**Gene**: STX11 (Syntaxin 11)

**Function**: The STX11 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in the normal functioning of cells in the immune system. The protein is a member of the syntaxin family of proteins, which are involved in the transport of cellular materials within the cell.

**Genomic Location**: Chromosome 6: 80,710,823-80,818,184

**Aliases**: HLH4, HPCN4, IMD44

**External IDs**: 
- HGNC: 11462
- NCBI Entrez: 8673
- Ensembl: ENSG00000111700
- OMIM: 603552
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UJ90

## Mutations
**AA Mutation List**: 
- c.400C>T (p.Gln134Ter)
- c.394+1G>A
- c.315-1G>C
- c.624_625delCCinsTGCT (p.Pro209AlafsTer32)

**Mutation Type**: Nonsense, Splice site, Frameshift

**dbSNP IDs**: rs587776836, rs796596637, rs796596637, rs758339845

**Somatic SNVs/InDels**:

No somatic mutations have been reported for STX11 gene.

## Related Disease
- Familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis type 4 (FHL4): It is characterized by an overactive immune system that damages organs and tissues in the body. Mutations in STX11 gene can cause FHL4. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
The only cure for FHL4 is a bone marrow transplant. The prognosis for FHL4 is poor without treatment. Most people with the disease die within the first year, and those who survive are often left with long-term damage to their organs.

## Drug Response
There is no known drug that targets STX11 gene mutations. Treatment for FHL4 mainly consists of immunosuppressive therapy to control the overactive immune system.

## References
- Bryceson, Y. T., et al. (2007). "FHL1-related disorders". In Adam, MP; Ardinger, HH; Pagon, RA (eds.). GeneReviews® [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of Washington, Seattle.
- Horiuchi, H., et al. (2008). "Efficacy and safety of epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors introduced to treat familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis caused by perforin gene mutations". Journal of Clinical Immunology. 28 (1): 37–42. 
- Kogawa, K., et al. (2002). "Mutation analysis of the perforin gene in patients with familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis". Journal of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology. 24 (9): 722–726.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**