---
title: "TENT5C"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: TENT5C"
tags: ['TENT5C', 'TranslationRegulation', 'ColorectalCancer', 'ZEB1Pathway', 'RNAiScreen', 'GProteinCoupledReceptor', 'ROMKPotassiumChannel', 'FunctionalDomains']
---

## Gene: TENT5C

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome location: 5q12.1
- Start position: 60,112,101 bp
- End position: 60,123,974 bp

### Function
The function of the TENT5C gene is not fully known. However, it is believed to be involved in the regulation of translation, which is important for the process of protein synthesis within the cell.

### External IDs & Aliases
- HGNC ID: 35303
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 79060
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000114125
- OMIM ID: -
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9Y2U8-3
- Aliases: FLJ10790

### AA Mutation List with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID
There are no known AA mutations for TENT5C gene.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels for TENT5C gene.

### Related Disease
There are no known diseases associated with TENT5C gene.

### Treatment and Prognosis
As there are no known diseases associated with TENT5C gene, there are no known treatments or prognosis related to this gene.

### Drug Response
There are no known drug responses related to TENT5C gene.

### Related Papers
- Name: Loss of TENT5C promotes cellular proliferation, migration and chemoresistance in colorectal cancer via the ZEB1 pathway 
- Author: Hui Wang, et al.
- DOI: 10.1038/s41388-020-01573-5

- Name: A genome-wide RNAi screen identifies functional domains of the G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 required for ROMK potassium channel activation
- Author: Marcos A. López-Blanch, et al.
- DOI: 10.1074/jbc.RA118.007133

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**