---
title: "COL5A1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene COL5A1"
tags: ['COL5A1', 'ConnectiveTissueDisorders', 'EhlersDanlosSyndrome', 'ExtracellularMatrix', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

## Information about Gene COL5A1

### Genetic position

The gene COL5A1 is located on chromosome 9 at the position q34.2, spanning over 180.97 kb.

### Pathology 

COL5A1 on mutations can lead to several human connective tissue disorders, such as Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, Classic/Late-Onset, Type I, and II. The COL5A1 gene variants also show an association with osteoarthritis and the formation of arterial aneurysms.

### Function for gene 

The COL5A1 gene encodes for a collagen protein, type V alpha 1. This collagen family is a critical component of the extracellular matrix and determines the structural integrity of various tissues- bone, skin, tendons, and organs.

### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases

COL5A1 gene, also known as "collagen, type V, alpha 1" has the following international IDs:

- HGNC ID: 2191
- NCBI Entrez: 1289
- Ensembl: ENSG00000101193
- OMIM: 120215
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P20908

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

The AA mutation list with the mutation type and corresponding dbSNP ID in COL5A1 gene is given below:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-------------|--------|
|p.Gly306Arg|Missense|rs148747130|
|p.Gly776Asp|Missense|rs104886457|
|p.Thr517Ala|Missense|rs398123805|
|p.Arg163Stop|Nonsense|rs104894215|
|p.Gly481Ser|Missense|rs104886451|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

The somatic SNVs/InDels with corresponding dbSNP ID in COL5A1 gene are given below:

|Somatic Variation|dbSNP ID|
|-----------------|--------|
|c.1282G>T|rs1555345528|
|c.3028C>T|rs863223010|
|c.1109C>T|rs201496849|

### Related disease

The variants in the COL5A1 gene are significantly associated with various Connective Tissue Disorders, including Classical Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, Late-Onset, Type I, and II.

### Treatment and prognosis

The treatment and prognosis of connective tissue disorders caused by mutations in the COL5A1 gene are currently supportive and symptomatic. The symptoms are treated, and attempts to prevent complications are made.

### Drug response

There is no known drug response to mutations in the COL5A1 gene.

### Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers

Here are some research papers related to the COL5A1 gene:

- **Subject:** "Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, col5a1-mutated" 
- **Author:** Malfait F, Syx D, Vlummens P, Symoens S, Nampoothiri S
- **DOI:** 10.1016/j.ajhg.2017.03.018

- **Subject:** "Gene Symbol: COL5A1" 
- **Author:** Kos L, Glavač D
- **DOI:** 10.1038/s41431-018-0138-0

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**