---
title: "SLC16A1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SLC16A1"
tags: ['SLC16A1', 'MonocarboxylateTransporter', 'LactateTransportDefect', 'CancerTherapy', 'GeneticMutation', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene SLC16A1

## Gene Information

- **Gene name:** Solute Carrier Family 16 Member 1 (SLC16A1)
- **Function:** The SLC16A1 gene encodes for a monocarboxylate transporter protein, MCT1, which facilitates the transport of monocarboxylates such as lactate and pyruvate across the cell membrane.
- **Aliases:** MCT1, SLC16A1, DKFZp781D0152
- **External IDs:**
  - HGNC ID: 11005
  - NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 6566
  - Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000137014
  - OMIM ID: 600682
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P53985

## Genetic Position and Pathology

- **Genomic location:** Chromosome 1q21.2
- **Mutation type:** Missense, nonsense, frameshift, and splicing variants
- **dbSNP ID:**
  - rs1049434 (missense)
  - rs1049436 (nonsense)
  - rs773786125 (frameshift)
  - rs1400807294 (splicing)
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:** No significant somatic variants reported in COSMIC database (as of August 2021).

## Related Disease

Mutations in the SLC16A1 gene have been associated with several diseases and conditions including:

- Lactate transport defect (also known as Exercise-induced Lactic Acidosis)
- Cerebral malaria
- Multiple Sclerosis
- Alzheimer's disease
- Glaucoma
- Colorectal cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no specific treatment for mutations in the SLC16A1 gene. However, depending on the underlying condition, treatment options such as lifestyle changes, medication, or surgical interventions may be recommended. The prognosis varies depending on the severity of the condition.

## Drug Response

There is limited information available on the drug response associated with SLC16A1 gene mutations. However, SLC16A1 protein has been found to be a potential target for cancer therapy. In preclinical studies, inhibition of MCT1 has been shown to suppress tumor growth in various types of cancers.

## Related Papers

- **Title:** The monocarboxylate transporter family--role and regulation.
  - **Author:** Halestrap AP
  - **Journal:** IUBMB Life. 2012 Jun;64(6):109-19. doi: 10.1002/iub.623. Epub 2012 May 7.
  - **PMID:** 22566160
  - **DOI:** 10.1002/iub.623

- **Title:** Targeting cancer metabolism: a therapeutic window opens.
  - **Author:** Le A, et al.
  - **Journal:** Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 Aug;11(8):620-37. doi: 10.1038/nrd3555. Epub 2012 Jul 20.
  - **PMID:** 22820796
  - **DOI:** 10.1038/nrd3555

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**