---
title: "SOCS1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: SOCS1"
tags: ['SOCS1', 'cytokinesignaling', 'autoimmunedisease', 'cancer', 'drugtarget', 'prognosis', 'somaticmutations', 'inflammation']
---

## Gene: SOCS1

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 16
- Start position: 70,119,707 bp
- End position: 70,158,715 bp

### Pathology and Function
- SOCS1 (Suppressor of cytokine signaling 1) gene plays a vital function in regulating cytokine signaling pathways and is also involved in the immune response, growth factor signaling, and inflammation.
- Its dysfunction leads to autoimmune diseases, inflammation, and cancer due to abnormal cytokines secretion. 

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 11183
- NCBI Entrez: 8651
- Ensembl: ENSG00000145383
- OMIM:  SOC1
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O15524

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are several mutations identified in the SOCS1 gene, including missense, nonsense, frameshift, insertion, and deletion mutations. Some of them are listed as follows:

| Protein       | AA Mutation   | Type         | dbSNP ID     |
|---------------|---------------|--------------|--------------|
| SOCS1          | L57R          | Missense    | rs35646542 |
| SOCS1         | P22R          | Missense    | rs77910071 |
| SOCS1         | Y23*          | Nonsense | rs398122626|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels reported in the SOCS1 gene that are associated with various cancers. Some of them are as follows:
- rs136829491 
- rs143819301 
- rs144837482

### Related Disease
There are several diseases associated with the SOCS1 gene, including autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, and lupus, inflammatory diseases such as asthma, and cancer.
 
### Treatment and Prognosis
- SOCS1 is a potential target for the treatment of autoimmune diseases, inflammation, and cancer.
- The expression level of SOCS1 is a significant biomarker for prognosis in various cancers, including breast cancer, lung cancer, and hepatocellular carcinoma.

### Drug Response
- There are several drugs in the market that target SOCS1, including Epacadostat and C188-9.

### Related Papers
- Author: Hiroki Toda, Asuka Suzuki, Hiroshi Sekimoto, Takako Iwasa, Yasuhiro Kimura, Naomi Takahashi, et.al.
  - Title: Identification of SOCS1 Gene Amplification in Breast Cancer Patients
  - DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0077276
  
- Author: Greg Arndt, Michelle J. Smith, and Laura A. Inman
  - Title: Intermittent hypoxia-induced SOCS1 is regulated by PHLPP2 and mediates metastasis via STAT3 activation
  - DOI: 10.1038/s41388-020-1443-y

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**