---
title: "CFH"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information for Gene CFH"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'GeneCFH', 'ComplementFactorH', 'ARMD', 'aHUS', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'Treatment']
---

# Information for Gene CFH

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

- **Genetic Position**: Chromosome 1, from base pair 195,944,322 to 196,036,090

- **Pathology**: Genetic Variations in Gene CFH can increase susceptibility to age-related macular degeneration (ARMD), a common eye disorder that causes vision loss, and atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS), a rare kidney disorder.

- **Function for Gene**: Gene CFH encodes the Complement Factor H (CFH) protein, which is a key regulator of the complement system, a part of the innate immune system. CFH acts as a co-factor for Factor I in cleaving complement proteins C3b and C4b and prevents the formation of C3 convertase.

## External IDs and Aliases

- **Gene**: CFH
- **Genomic Location**: 1q31.3
- **Aliases**: AHUS4, ARMD4, CFHL3, FHL1, HF, HF1, HF2, HUS1

## External Sites

- **HGNC**: HGNC:4880
- **NCBI Entrez**: 3075
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000134057
- **OMIM**: 134370
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: P08603

## AA Mutations and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- **Mutation Type**: Missense Mutation
- **AA Mutation List**:

    | AA Mutation | dbSNP ID |
    |-------------|----------|
    | Y402H       | rs1061170|
    | E936D       | rs121913059|
    | K119>ter    | rs121913057|
    | I62V        | rs800292|
    | D90G        | rs121912873|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

NA

## Related Disease

- **Age-Related Macular Degeneration (ARMD)**
    - CFH gene variation, particularly Y402H, is associated with increased susceptibility to ARMD.

- **Atypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (aHUS)**
    - CFH gene variations have been identified in individuals with aHUS, particularly mutations resulting in truncated protein products.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- Therapies for ARMD include anti-VEGF medication, photodynamic therapy, and laser surgery.

- Treatment for aHUS includes plasma exchange or infusion to remove or replace the affected proteins.

## Drug Response

- Individuals with CFH mutations may respond differently to some complement inhibiting drugs.

## Related Papers

- **Subject**: Identification of a mutation in the complement factor H-related protein 5 gene in patients with age-related macular degeneration
- **Author**: Hageman GS et al.
- **DOI Link**: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng1291-195)

- **Subject**: Complement factor H mutation associated with autosomal recessive atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome
- **Author**: Caprioli J et al.
- **DOI Link**: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1086/301809)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**