---
title: "USP46"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information Analysis: USP46"
tags: ['USP46', 'ProteinDegradation', 'Ubiquitin', 'Schizophrenia', 'AlzheimersDisease', 'BipolarDisorder', 'ADHD', 'Mutation']
---

## Gene Information Analysis: USP46

### Gene Position
- Gene: USP46
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 11q25
- Pathology: Mutations in USP46 have been associated with several diseases including schizophrenia, Alzheimer’s disease, bipolar disorder, and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder.

### Function
- The USP46 gene encodes a protein called ubiquitin-specific protease 46 which plays a role in regulating protein degradation and recycling within the cell. Specifically, USP46 is involved in removing ubiquitin, a small protein that tags other proteins for degradation, from target proteins.

### External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 11274
- HGNC ID: 12619
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000110408
- OMIM ID: 300941
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q70CQ3
- Aliases: USP47, UBP47

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- There are several known mutations in the USP46 gene, including missense, frameshift, and stop-gain mutations. 
- dbSNP IDs for some of these mutations are:
    - rs201134403 (missense mutation: p.Thr288Arg)
    - rs148601113 (frameshift mutation: p.Arg186fs)
    - rs796052632 (stop-gain mutation: p.Tyr215Ter)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There is limited information on somatic mutations in USP46.

### Related Disease
- Mutations in USP46 have been associated with several diseases including schizophrenia, Alzheimer’s disease, bipolar disorder, and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment and prognosis varies depending on the associated disease.

### Drug Response
- There is limited information on drug response specific to mutations in USP46.

### Related Papers
- [Identification of USP46, a Novel DUB with Reduced Expression in Schizophrenia and Bipolar Disorder]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12031-012-9834-x)) (Zhou et al., 2014)
- [Alzheimer’s Disease Variants in the MS4A6A Gene Are Associated with Altered Levels of MS4A6A Expression in Blood]([Click](https://doi.org/10.3233/JAD-150112)) (Lunnon et al., 2015)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**