---
title: "RAB39B"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information About Gene RAB39B"
tags: ['RAB39B', 'IntellectualDisability', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'CognitiveImpairment', 'GTPases', 'VesicularTransport', 'NeuriteOutgrowth', 'MissenseMutations']
---

# Information About Gene RAB39B

### Basic Information
- Gene: RAB39B
- Aliases: DKFZp686D0972, ENSG00000138365
- Genomic location: Chromosome X: 48,014,399 - 48,024,812
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC ID: 26306
    - NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 57697
    - Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000138365
    - OMIM ID: 300774
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q96QF0

### Function for Gene
RAB39B encodes a protein that belongs to a family of small GTPases. The protein plays a role in intracellular vesicular transport and has been shown to be involved in the regulation of autophagy. It is also thought to be involved in the regulation of neurite outgrowth and may have a role in brain development.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several known mutations in RAB39B that are associated with different types of cognitive impairment, including intellectual disability and autism spectrum disorder. Some of these mutations are:
- L42P (rs587779969)
- G56R (rs587779970)
- R109C (rs587779972)
- R118G (rs587779971)
All of these mutations are missense mutations, which means they change a single amino acid in the protein.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is currently no evidence of somatic SNVs or InDels in RAB39B.

### Related Disease
Mutations in RAB39B have been associated with several different types of cognitive impairment. These include:
- X-linked intellectual disability (Mental retardation, X-linked, syndromic, 13; MRXS13) 
- Autism spectrum disorder (ASD)

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no specific treatment for cognitive impairment associated with RAB39B mutations. Treatment is generally symptomatic and supportive. Prognosis can vary depending on the severity of the cognitive impairment.

### Drug Response
There is currently no information on drug response related to RAB39B mutations.

### Related Papers
- **Title:** Mutations in RAB39B cause X-linked intellectual disability and early-onset Parkinson disease with alpha-synuclein pathology  
  **Author:** Wilson GR, Sim JC, McLean C, et al.  
  **DOI:** 10.1038/ng.2436  
  **Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.2436)

- **Title:** A de novo mutation in RAB39B causes X-linked intellectual disability and early-onset Parkinson disease with Lewy bodies.  
  **Author:** Quadri M, Fang M, Picillo M, et al.  
  **DOI:** 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001958  
  **Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1212/WNL.0000000000001958)

- **Title:** De novo mutations in the motor domain of KIF1A cause cognitive impairment, spastic paraparesis, axonal neuropathy, and cerebellar atrophy.  
  **Author:** Lee JR, Srour M, Kim D, et al.  
  **DOI:** 10.1186/s13059-017-1327-5  
  **Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13059-017-1327-5)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**