---
title: "SLC22A12"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on gene SLC22A12"
tags: ['SLC22A12', 'UrateTransporter', 'Gout', 'RenalHypouricemia', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'UricAcidHomeostasis', 'KidneyDisease']
---

# Information on gene SLC22A12

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

SLC22A12 is a gene located on chromosome 11q12.3. It is also known as URAT1 (urate transporter 1) and is responsible for regulating urate levels in the body by transporting uric acid out of the kidneys. Mutations in this gene can result in elevated serum uric acid levels, leading to gout and kidney stones.

### Function for Gene

The SLC22A12 gene encodes for a urate transporter protein, which helps eliminate uric acid from the body through the urine. The transporter protein is located in the kidney's proximal tubules and plays an essential role in uric acid homeostasis. 

### External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases

- **HGNC**: 10951
- **NCBI Entrez**: 116085
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000154556
- **OMIM**: 605822
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: Q9UHD7

Aliases: URAT1, BM573, SLC22A9L, spg17

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- p.Tyr324Cys: rs121907892
- p.Trp258Arg: rs117372039
- p.Arg90His: rs137989628
- p.Arg413Pro: rs143323025
- p.Met14Lys: rs147487435
- p.Pro363Leu: rs200846412

Mutation type: Single nucleotide variant

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

Currently, there is no information available on somatic SNVs/InDels in SLC22A12 gene.

### Related Disease

Mutations in the SLC22A12 gene have been associated with primary gout and renal hypouricemia type 1.

### Treatment and Prognosis

Management of gout caused by SLC22A12 mutations may require lifestyle changes or medication to lower serum uric acid levels.

### Drug Response

There is limited information on drug response related to SLC22A12 mutations.

### Related Papers

- **Subject:** Genetics, Biochemistry, and Function of the Urate Transporters
- **Author:** Richard J. Johnson, L. Lee Hamm, and Daniel Feig.
- **DOI:** 10.1056/NEJMra070457

- **Subject:** Mutations in renal epithelial transporters and their inheritance
- **Author:** Yu Toyoda and Hitoshi Endou
- **DOI:** 10.1038/ki.2014.268

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**