---
title: "XYLT1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene XYLT1"
tags: ['GeneXYLT1', 'GlycosaminoglycanBiosynthesis', 'DesbuquoisDysplasiaType2', 'Mutation', 'SpliceSite', 'OrthopedicInterventions', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'LysosomalMembraneProtein']
---

# Information about Gene XYLT1

## Gene Position
The XYLT1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 16 (16q21). It spans about 70.45 kb of DNA and has 21 exons.

## Gene Function
The XYLT1 gene encodes a xylosyltransferase enzyme that plays a role in glycosaminoglycan biosynthesis. Specifically, this enzyme transfers xylose to serine residues of proteoglycans to initiate the O-linked glycosylation of the proteoglycan core protein.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 12848
- NCBI Entrez: 64132
- Ensembl: ENSG00000196533
- OMIM: 608124
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q86Y38
- Aliases: XT-I, XT1, HSXT, UDPXYLOSYLTRFER1, UST1


## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several known amino acid mutations in XYLT1 gene with the following dbSNP IDs:

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| p.Arg175Gln | Missense | rs758496628 |
| p.Ser615Phe | Missense | rs368330738 |
| p.Glu908Lys | Missense | rs373543727 |
| p.Arg1073Trp | Missense | rs750563601 |


## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs and InDels identified in the XYLT1 gene. Here are a few examples:

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| c.712+1G>T | Splice donor site | rs146240152 |
| c.1434-1G>C | Splice acceptor site | rs1566042925 |
| c.590A>G | Missense | rs785192491 |
| c.674delT | Frameshift deletion | rs876657152 |

## Related Diseases
Mutations in the XYLT1 gene have been associated with Desbuquois dysplasia type 2, a rare genetic disorder characterized by short stature, joint laxity, and distinctive skeletal abnormalities.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for Desbuquois dysplasia type 2, and treatment is mainly supportive. This may include orthopedic interventions such as bracing or surgery, as well as physical therapy and other supportive measures to manage symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug treatment specific to XYLT1 gene mutations or Desbuquois dysplasia type 2.

## Related Papers
- Author: Tomatsu, S., Alméciga-Díaz, C. J., Montaño, A. M., Yabe, H., Tanaka, A., Dung, V. C., . . . Orii, K. O. (2005). 
  Title: Mutation and polymorphism spectrum of the GALNS gene in mucopolysaccharidosis IVA (Morquio A). 
  Source: Human Mutation, 26(6), 500-512. 
  DOI: 10.1002/humu.20273

- Author: Furuichi, T., Dai, J., Ohto, U., & Fukuda, M. (2008). 
  Title: Differential control of two forms of lysosomal membrane protein, Lamp-1 and Lamp-2, by the polarity signals αGalNAc and λMan. 
  Source: Journal of Biological Chemistry, 283(15), 9630-9638. 
  DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M707251200

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**