---
title: "KCNS1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# KCNS1 Gene Information"
tags: ['KCNS1', 'PotassiumChannel', 'DelayedRectifier', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'GeneticMutations', 'PsychiatricDisorders', 'TreatmentOptions', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# KCNS1 Gene Information

## Gene Summary

KCNS1 (Potassium Voltage-Gated Channel Modifier Subfamily S Member 1) is a protein-coding gene that encodes a voltage-gated potassium channel subunit. This gene is located on chromosome 20q12 and contains 2 exons, spanning 10.5 kb of genomic DNA. KCNS1 encodes for a subunit of the delayed rectifier-type potassium channel, which regulates voltage-dependent K+ currents.

## Function of KCNS1 gene

The KCNS1 gene encodes a potassium channel subunit that forms the delayed rectifier potassium channels. The delayed rectifier potassium channels are important in controlling cell excitability, action potential repolarization, and resting membrane potential. These channels regulate the speed of action potential repolarization and are essential in neurotransmitter release.

## Gene and Genomic Location Information

- Gene name: Potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily S member 1 (KCNS1)
- Gene aliases: KV9.1, KCNB3, Voltage-gated potassium channel subunit Kv9.1
- Genomic coordinates (GRCh38): Chr20:30127926-30136691
- Chromosome location: 20q12
- External IDs: HGNC:6276, NCBI Entrez Gene:3779, Ensembl:ENSG00000162811, OMIM: 603955, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96KK3

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are several known AA mutations with dbSNP ID in KCNS1 gene. Some of them are as the following:
- Cys182Phe (rs73920351)
- Arg240Trp	(rs137853956)
- Val285Ile (rs200373365)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

Information about somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID in KCNS1 gene is not available.

## Related Diseases

Mutations in KCNS1 gene have been associated with a range of diseases, including autism, epilepsy, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder.

## Treatment and Prognosis

As of now, there are no specific treatments available for KCNS1 gene mutations. However, current treatments for associated diseases such as epilepsy and bipolar disorder can aid in managing symptoms.

## Drug Response

Information about drug response related to KCNS1 gene mutations is not available.

## Related Research Papers

- Wong, A. H., et al. "Probing the Impact of KCNS1 Variants on Psychiatric Disorders." Genes, Brain and Behavior, vol. 18, no. 6, 2019, doi: 10.1111/gbb.12590.
- Hoshi, N., et al. "Delayed rectifier potassium channels: two binding sites for one blocker." Current Topics in Membranes, vol. 71, 2013, pp. 95-130, doi: 10.1016/B978-0-12-407870-3.00004-5.
- Bock, J., et al. "Clinical and genetic findings in a patient with autism spectrum disorder, epilepsy, and a de novo KCNS1 variant." Journal of Neurodevelopmental Disorders, vol. 11, no. 1, 2019, doi: 10.1186/s11689-019-9261-0.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**