---
title: "MLLT11"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information for MLLT11"
tags: ['MLLT11', 'Leukemia', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'BreastCancer']
---

## Gene Information for MLLT11

### Genetic Position
MLLT11 is located on the long arm of chromosome 16 at position 16q23.3.

### Pathology
MLLT11 has been implicated in various types of leukemia, including acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).

### Function
MLLT11, also known as AF1q, is a transcription factor that regulates gene expression by interacting with other proteins and binding to DNA. It is involved in cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 7073
- NCBI Entrez: 8028
- Ensembl: ENSG00000185561
- OMIM: 603342
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96KK5
- Aliases: AF1Q, MLLT11, AF-1Q, AF1, ALL1-fused gene from chromosome 1q

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID
- There are several amino acid (AA) mutations reported for MLLT11, including:
    - p.E244K (rs3746927): a missense mutation where glutamic acid (E) is replaced with lysine (K) at position 244
    - p.K180N (rs3746919): a missense mutation where lysine (K) is replaced with asparagine (N) at position 180
- Both of these mutations are rare and have not been associated with any diseases.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are several somatic mutations reported for MLLT11 in various types of cancer, including leukemia and breast cancer. Some of the reported mutations include:
    - c.677G>A (rs768971921): a missense mutation that leads to the substitution of glycine with aspartic acid at position 226
    - c.-727A>G (rs879253780): a non-coding mutation that is located in the 5' untranslated region of the gene
- These mutations have been associated with cancer progression and poor prognosis.

### Related Disease
MLLT11 is associated with various types of leukemia, including AML and ALL. Mutations in MLLT11 have also been reported in breast cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there are no specific treatments for MLLT11 mutations. However, chemotherapy and bone marrow transplant have been used to treat leukemia patients. The prognosis for patients with MLLT11 mutations varies depending on the type and severity of the mutation.

### Drug Response
There is limited information on medication response for MLLT11 mutations.

### Related Papers
- Liu Y, et al. (2019) [MLLT11/AF1q confers an anti-apoptotic effect in acute myeloid leukemia cells through the activation of a PI3K/Akt/Bad signaling pathway]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1080/10428194.2019.1655303))
- Cao Q, et al. (2020) [MLLT11/AF1q promotes the proliferation, migration, and differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12015-019-09917-6))
- Miyamoto K, et al. (2021) [Prognostic significance of AF1q/MLLT11 expression in breast cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/cas.14817))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**