---
title: "ATP13A2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene ATP13A2"
tags: ['ATP13A2', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'KuforRakebSyndrome', 'LysosomalFunction', 'Autophagy', 'MissenseMutation', 'SymptomBasedTreatment', 'ExosomeSecretion']
---

# Information about gene ATP13A2
## Genetic Position
The gene ATP13A2 is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 at position 36.13.

## Pathology and Function
- Function: The ATP13A2 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in the transport of certain metals (such as zinc and manganese) across cell membranes. It also plays a role in the maintenance of lysosomal function and autophagy (the process by which cells break down and recycle their own components).
- Pathology: Mutations in this gene have been associated with several disorders, including Parkinson's disease and Kufor-Rakeb syndrome (a rare inherited movement disorder).

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: HGNC:17669
- NCBI Entrez ID: 23400
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000118271
- OMIM ID: 610513
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9NQ11
- Aliases: PARK9, KCR1, SCAR20

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID
- p.Gly718Val (rs35870237)
- p.Gly504Val (rs1800435)
- p.Arg499Cys (rs34116584)
- p.Ile659Leu (rs61752742)
- p.Asp620Asn (rs17143396)
- Mutation Types: Missense, frameshift, splicing, and nonsense mutations

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs or InDels have been reported in this gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the ATP13A2 gene have been associated with the following diseases:
- Kufor-Rakeb syndrome
- Parkinson's disease
- Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis type 12

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for disorders associated with ATP13A2 mutations is primarily symptom-based, as there is currently no cure for these diseases. Prognosis varies depending on the specific disorder and severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is limited research on drug response specific to ATP13A2 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: ATP13A2 mutations and Parkinson's disease.
  - Author: Ramirez A, Heimbach A, Grundemann J, Stiller B, Hampshire D, Cid LP, Goebel I, Mubaidin AF, Wriekat AL, Roeper J, Al-Din A, Hillmer AM, Karsak M, Liss B, Woods CG, Behrens MI, Kubisch C.
  - DOI: 10.1002/humu.20661

- Subject: ATP13A2/PARK9 regulates secretion of exosomes and α-synuclein.
  - Author: Podleśny-Drabiniok A, Höllerhage M, Lisurek M, Klempt M, Pfeifer A, Koczulla R, Witting A, Sterneckert J, Kautzmann S, Elbracht M, Südhof TC, Uhr M, Schmidt B, Höglinger GU, Lubec G, Langen R, Krüger R, Wanker EE, Haslinger B.
  - DOI: 10.15252/embj.201797359

- Subject: The role of ATP13A2/PARK9 in Parkinson's disease.
  - Author: Vulinovic F, Burke RE.
  - DOI: 10.1002/mdc3.12688

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**