---
title: "ALOXE3"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene ALOXE3 "
tags: ['ALOXE3', 'CongenitalIchthyosis', 'Eicosanoids', 'FrameshiftMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'Prognosis', 'Lipoxygenase']
---

## Information about Gene ALOXE3 

### Genetic Position
- ALOXE3 is located on chromosome 17 at position 17p13.1.

### Pathology
- Mutations in ALOXE3 have been associated with autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis (ARCI), a rare skin disorder characterized by dry, scaly, or thickened skin. 

### Function
- ALOXE3 encodes for an arachidonate lipoxygenase, which is involved in the production of eicosanoids, potent signaling molecules involved in various physiological and pathological processes, including inflammation, immunity, and carcinogenesis. 

### External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID (NCBI): 59344
- Ensembl: ENSG00000108924
- HGNC: 17041
- OMIM: 607206
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H2A9
- Aliases: L-489, LOXE3, eLOX3 

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Phe244LeufsTer35 (frameshift mutation) with dbSNP ID rs781545574
- p.Arg318Ter (nonsense mutation) with dbSNP ID rs137854195

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No known somatic variants reported in ALOXE3.

### Related Disease
- Autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis (ARCI)

### Treatment and Prognosis
- There is currently no known cure for ARCI, and treatment is mainly supportive, focusing on management of symptoms such as itching and scaling. Prognosis varies depending on the severity and extent of skin involvement, with severe cases potentially leading to life-threatening complications.

### Drug Response
- No known drug response reported for ALOXE3.

### Related Papers
- Subject: "Identification of a Novel Lipoxygenase (ALOXE3) as the Ubiquitous Source of Corneocyte-bound 13-HPODE" 
- Author: Uchida, et al. 
- DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M304306200

- Subject: "A mutation in the 12R-lipoxygenase-encoding gene ALOXE3 associated with non-bullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma" 
- Author: Eckl KM, et al.
- DOI: 10.1086/513696

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**