---
title: "WNT10B"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene WNT10B"
tags: ['WNT10B', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'Mutations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about Gene WNT10B

## Genetic Position

The gene WNT10B is located on the long arm of chromosome 12 (12q13.12).

## Pathology

Mutations in the WNT10B gene have been associated with various diseases including ectodermal dysplasia with abnormal tooth morphology, odonto-onycho-dermal dysplasia, and  split-hand/foot malformation with long bone deficiency. 

## Function

The WNT10B gene encodes a member of the WNT family of signaling proteins. These proteins are involved in various cellular processes such as embryonic development, cell proliferation, differentiation, and migration. WNT10B specifically plays a role in the development of hair follicles and sweat glands, as well as bone formation.

## External IDs

- HGNC: 12705
- NCBI Entrez: 7480
- Ensembl: ENSG00000111204
- OMIM: 601906
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O00744

Aliases: WNT6B, wingless-type MMTV integration site family, member 10B, protein Wnt-10b

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are various mutations in the WNT10B gene associated with different diseases. Some of these mutations along with their mutation type and dbSNP ID are listed below:

- p.Asp188Asn (missense mutation) with dbSNP ID: rs779279223
- p.Leu242ProfsTer148 (frameshift mutation)
- p.Arg292Cys (missense mutation) with dbSNP ID: rs779312327
- p.Glu114Ter (nonsense mutation) with dbSNP ID: rs111888679

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are currently no known somatic SNVs/InDels in the WNT10B gene.

## Related Disease

As mentioned before, mutations in the WNT10B gene have been associated with various diseases including ectodermal dysplasia with abnormal tooth morphology, odonto-onycho-dermal dysplasia, and split-hand/foot malformation with long bone deficiency.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment and prognosis depend on the specific disease associated with the WNT10B mutation.

## Drug Response

There is currently no known drug response specifically related to WNT10B mutations.

## Related Papers

- Subject: WNT10B mutations
- Author: Adaimy L, Chouery E, Megarbane H, Mroueh S, Delague V, Nicolas E, Belguith H, de Mazancourt P, Megarbane A
- DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.2007.00936.x
- Link: [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17941836/)

- Subject: Tooth agenesis
- Author: van den Boogaard MJ, Créton M, Bronkhorst Y, van der Hout A, Hennekam E, Lindhout D, Cune M, Ploos van Amstel HK
- DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.34031
- Link: [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22678984/)

- Subject: Wnt genes
- Author: Niehrs C
- DOI: 10.1038/nrm2620
- Link: [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18463632/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**