---
title: "CPT2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: CPT2 "
tags: ['CPT2', 'GeneticVariations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'Mitochondria', 'FattyAcids']
---

## Gene: CPT2 

### Information

- Function for gene: The CPT2 gene encodes an enzyme called carnitine palmitoyltransferase II, which is involved in the transport of long-chain fatty acids into mitochondria for their oxidation.
- External IDs for gene: 
    - NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 1374 
    - Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000129816
    - HGNC ID: 2345
- Genomic location: Chromosome 1q42.13
- Aliases: Carnitine palmitoyltransferase II, CPT-II, Muscle-type carnitine palmitoyltransferase II, CPT2D

### Genetic Variations

- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
    - p.Ala66Val - Missense variant - rs1799821
    - p.Arg68Ter - Nonsense variant - rs121917779
    - p.Pro113Leu - Missense variant - rs137853461
    - p.Met549Val - Missense variant - rs74315340
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
    - Not currently known.

### Related Diseases

- CPT2 deficiency: A rare genetic disorder causing muscle weakness, hypoketotic hypoglycemia, hepatomegaly, and myoglobinuria. It can present in infancy or later in life. 

### Treatment and Prognosis

- Treatment: Treatment for CPT2 deficiency includes avoidance of fasting, a low-fat diet, and L-carnitine supplementation. 
- Prognosis: The long-term prognosis for individuals with CPT2 deficiency varies depending on the severity of the disease. If detected early and managed appropriately, affected individuals can have a good quality of life. 

### Drug Response

- A study conducted on mice indicated that treatment with AMPK activators, such as metformin, improved energy metabolism and alleviated symptoms in CPT2 deficiency. However, further studies are needed to see if this translates to humans.

### References

- Subject: Carnitine palmitoyltransferase II (CPT2) deficiency
- Author: Shruti Mahapatra, MD
- DOI link: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1527/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**