---
title: "SORT1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information"
tags: ['SORT1', 'LipidMetabolism', 'CardiovascularDisease', 'ProteinTrafficking', 'LDLCholesterol', 'PCSK9Inhibitors', 'GeneticVariants', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene Information

## Gene name and position
- Gene name: SORT1 (sortilin 1)
- Genomic location: Chromosome 1 (1p13.3)
- Cytogenetic location: 1p13-p12

## Pathology and Function
- Pathology: SORT1 gene is involved in lipid metabolism and its variants may contribute to increased risk of cardiovascular disease.
- Function: This gene encodes for a protein called sortilin, which plays a role in protein trafficking and endocytosis. It helps in the endocytosis of ligands such as neurotrophins, lipoproteins, and growth factors and regulates their signaling.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 11204 
- NCBI Entrez: 6272 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000136352 
- OMIM: 602141 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q99523 

## Mutations
### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- rs646776 (p.Asn342Asp)
- rs646776 (p.Asn342Ser)
- rs646776 (p.Asn342Thr)
- rs646776 (p.Asn342Gly)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Currently, there is no reported somatic mutation for the SORT1 gene.

## Related Disease
Variants in the SORT1 gene have been linked to several cardiovascular disorders, including myocardial infarction and Alzheimer's disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The use of PCSK9 inhibitors such as evolocumab and alirocumab as an adjunct therapy to statin treatment is effective in reducing LDL cholesterol levels in patients with coronary artery disease and hypoalphalipoproteinemia.

## Drug Response
Several studies reveal that statins and PCSK9 inhibitors have a higher therapeutic effect in individuals with SORT1 rs12740374 GG genotypes compared to AA or AG genotypes.

## References
- Xu, C. F., Hwang, S. L., Lee, W. J., Tsai, F. J., & Tsai, C. H. (2020). Gene polymorphisms, pharmacokinetics and efficacy of lipid-lowering drugs in hypercholesterolemia. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110614))
- Gustafsen, C., et al. (2014). Sortilin and Lipoprotein Metabolism: Making Sense of the Sequence Variations. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.3389/fgene.2014.00456))
- Kjolby, M., et al. (2010). Sort1, encoded by the cardiovascular risk locus 1p13.3, is a regulator of hepatic lipoprotein export. ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/nm.2219))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**