---
title: "AGTR1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: AGTR1"
tags: ['AGTR1', 'AngiotensinIIreceptor', 'Hypertension', 'Preeclampsia', 'DrugResponse', 'SomaticMutations', 'GeneticVariations', 'CardiovascularRegulation']
---

# Gene Information: AGTR1

### Genetic Position:
The AGTR1 gene is located on chromosome 3 at position 3q21.2 and spans a length of 13.37 kb. 

### Pathology:
Variations in AGTR1 gene have been associated with various pathological conditions such as hypertension, left ventricular hypertrophy, preeclampsia, and diabetic nephropathy.

### Function:
The AGTR1 gene encodes angiotensin II receptor type 1, which is a G protein-coupled receptor that mediates the effects of angiotensin II. The receptor is involved in vasoconstriction, aldosterone secretion, and activation of the sympathetic nervous system, and plays a pivotal role in cardiovascular regulation.

### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC ID: HGNC:334 
- NCBI Entrez ID: 185 
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000144891 
- OMIM ID: 106165 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P30556 
- Aliases: AG2S, AGTR1A, AGTR1B, AT1, AT1BR, AT1R, AT1AR, AT1B, HAT1R

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
Some of the common variations in the AGTR1 gene include:
- rs5186: A1166C substitution resulting in an Ilele to Valine conversion
- rs12721331: G574A substitution resulting in a Glycine to Serine conversion 

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There are several somatic mutations reported in the AGTR1 gene with dbSNP IDs such as rs111139020, rs113578290, rs200802126, and rs571355869.

### Related Disease:
The variations/mutations in AGTR1 gene has been linked to the following diseases:
- Hypertension
- Left ventricular hypertrophy
- Preeclampsia
- Diabetic nephropathy

### Treatment and Prognosis:
The treatment and prognosis for AGTR1 gene-related diseases depend on the specific mutation/variation and its impact on the function of the angiotensin II receptor. However, several drugs have been developed that target the angiotensin II receptor, including angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors.

### Drug Response:
The response to drugs targeting the angiotensin II receptor may vary depending on the specific AGTR1 mutation/variation.

### Related Papers:
- Subject: Molecular genetics of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in human hypertension
  - Author: Williams, Jonathan S
  - DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(97)07446-2
  
- Subject: Association between polymorphisms of AGT, AGTR1, ACE, and ACE2 and susceptibility to essential hypertension in the Tibetan population
  - Author: Fang, Kaixiong
  - DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000022906

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**