---
title: "CYB5A"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## **Gene CYB5A**"
tags: ['CYB5A', 'GeneFunction', 'Methemoglobinemia', 'HemolyticAnemia', 'DrugMetabolism', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse']
---

## **Gene CYB5A**

### **Genetic Position**
CYB5A gene is located on the long (q) arm of chromosome 18 at position 11.32. 

### **Pathology**
CYB5A gene is associated with several diseases such as congenital methemoglobinemia, autosomal recessive hereditary methemoglobinemia, and nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia.

### **Function**
CYB5A represents a member of the cytochrome b5 protein family that plays a crucial role in electron transfer reactions in the processes of drug metabolism, steroid biosynthesis, and fatty acid desaturation.

### **External IDs**
- Gene ID: 1549
- Genomic Location: Chr18:32874763-32888006
- Alias: CMPRO, CYB5, CYB5-L, KMDOB

### **External Sites**
- HGNC: 2632
- NCBI Entrez: 1549
- Ensembl: ENSG00000101692
- OMIM: 250800
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P00167

### **AA Mutation List**
|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-------------|--------|
|T60I|Missense|rs121913527|
|T63A|Missense|rs121913526|
|G85V|Missense|rs121913528|
|S88F|Missense|rs121913529|

### **Somatic SNVs/InDels**
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels  present in CYB5A, but there are no dbSNP IDs available for these variants.

### **Related Disease**
CYB5A gene mutations are related to Methemoglobinemia and Hemolytic Anemia.

### **Treatment and Prognosis**
Treatment for Methemoglobinemia may include methylene blue injection, hyperbaric oxygen therapy and administering pure oxygen, while treatment for Hemolytic Anemia may include blood transfusions, blood and urine tests and medication.

### **Drug Response**
CYB5A gene is associated with drug response in the metabolism of drugs like antipyrine, caffeine, and phenobarbital.

### **Subject, Author name, DOI links to related papers**
- Smith et al. (2009) Cytochrome B5 Reductase And Cytochrome B5: Difference In The Inhibition By Carbon Monoxide. *Journal of Inorganic Biochemistry*, 103(3), 418-423. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jinorgbio.2008.10.006)
- Reitman et al. (2002) Cytochrome b5 induction during phenobarbital-mediated increases in P4502B and related monooxygenase activities. *Toxicology and Applied Pharmacology*, 185(5), 181–190. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0041-008X(02)00021-2)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**