---
title: "YARS"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: YARS"
tags: ['YARS', 'CharcotMarieToothDisease', 'ProteinSynthesis', 'Mutation', 'CMT2C', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Research']
---

## Gene: YARS

### Genetic Position 
The YARS gene is located on the chromosome 1, specifically on the region 1p35.1.

### Pathology
Mutations in the YARS gene have been linked to Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, type 2C (CMT2C). CMT2C is a group of progressive genetic disorders that affect the peripheral nerves leading to muscle weakness and decreased sensation in the limbs. 

### Function
The YARS gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase. This enzyme is essential for the process of protein synthesis. 

### External IDs/Aliases
- HGNC: 12893
- NCBI Entrez: 8565
- Ensembl: ENSG00000143318
- OMIM: 608689
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P54577

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg329Cys (rs74315481)
- p.Arg329His (rs587776740)
- p.Gly41Asp (rs778652137)
- p.Thr277Met (rs761597395)
- p.Ala240Valfs*33 (rs764439518)
- p.Val382Leu (rs765078371)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known somatic SNVs/InDels in the YARS gene.

### Related Disease
- Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, type 2C (CMT2C)

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for CMT2C. Treatment generally consists of managing the symptoms of the disease. Physical therapy or surgery may be useful in managing muscle weakness and deformities. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the symptoms.

### Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response for CMT2C.

### Related Papers
- Subject: YARS mutations
- Author: Latour, Philippe & Hamadouche, Tarik & Benyahia, Baya & Maisonobe, Thierry & Dubourg, Odile & Lebranchu, Philippe & Stojkovic, Tanya & Guiochon-Mantel, Anne & Viennet, Gauthier & Bonnefont, Jeanne & Levy, Nicolas & Chelly, Jamel & Tran Van Nhieu, Jeanne & Vandenberghe, Alain & Brice, Alexis & Levy, Concetta & Goizet, Cyril
- DOI links: [10.1212/WNL.0b013e3182553bc5]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1212/WNL.0b013e3182553bc5))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**