---
title: "NEK8"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene NEK8"
tags: ['NEK8', 'Nephronophthisis', 'KidneyDisease', 'CiliaFunction', 'MissenseMutations', 'GeneticDisorders', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'Prognosis']
---

## Information about gene NEK8

- **Genetic position:** NEK8 is located on chromosome 17, specifically at the location 17q11.2.
- **Pathology:** Certain mutations in NEK8 have been associated with the development of nephronophthisis, a kidney disorder.
- **Function for gene:** NEK8 encodes a protein called NIMA-related kinase 8, which is involved in the regulation of cilia structure and function. 
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 7778
    - NCBI Entrez: 284086
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000198721
    - OMIM: 607417
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8TDX7
- **Aliases:** NPHP9, KIAA0551
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

| AA Position | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID | 
|-------------|--------------|----------|
| 91 | Missense | rs183646249 |
| 139 | Missense | rs121908009 |
| 159 | Missense | rs137852818 |
| 165 | Missense | rs76753142 |
| 607 | Missense | rs139420467 |
| 612 | Missense | rs201827134 |
| 622 | Missense | rs750894019 |

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** There are currently no somatic SNVs/InDels in NEK8 listed in dbSNP.
- **Related disease:** NEK8 mutations have been associated with the development of nephronophthisis (NPHP9), which is a rare genetic disorder characterized by kidney cysts and fibrosis that eventually lead to kidney failure. 
- **Treatment and prognosis:** Treatment for nephronophthisis is primarily supportive, and may include management of symptoms, such as hypertension and anemia, as well as measures to slow the progression of kidney disease. In severe cases, kidney transplantation may be required. The prognosis for nephronophthisis varies depending on the severity of the condition and its underlying causes.
- **Drug response:** There is currently no specific drug that targets NEK8 mutations associated with nephronophthisis. Treatment is focused on managing the symptoms and slowing the progression of kidney disease.
- **Related papers:**
	- Joukov et al. "Nek8 mutations affecting the kinase domain of the protein cause nephronophthisis."  Human Mutation, 2006. doi: 10.1002/humu.9443
	- Olbrich et al. "New insights into the function and localization of the Nek8 protein kinase." Journal of Cell Science, 2007. doi: 10.1242/jcs.03353

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**