---
title: "NKX3 1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene NKX3-1"
tags: ['NKX3-1', 'ProstateCancer', 'GeneMutation', 'SomaticMutation', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

## Gene NKX3-1

- **Genetic Position:** NKX3-1 gene is located on chromosome 8 at the location 8p21.2.

- **Pathology:** NKX3-1 gene is associated with the development of prostate cancer. Studies have shown that mutations or alterations in this gene can lead to the development of prostate cancer.

- **Function for gene:** NKX3-1 gene encodes a protein that plays a vital role in prostate development and function. It regulates the expression of several genes involved in the development and differentiation of prostate cells.

- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:** The external IDs for NKX3-1 gene are as follows:

    - HGNC: 7764
    - NCBI Entrez: 4824
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000120907
    - OMIM: 602841
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O15528

    Aliases: NKX3A, BAPX2, NKX3.1, NKX3.1B 

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** Several mutations have been identified in the NKX3-1 gene that is associated with prostate cancer. Some of the mutations are as follows:

    - c.349G>A (p.Gly117Asp) - rs121908967
    - c.131G>A (p.Arg44Gln) - rs17104871
    - c.538A>G (p.Asn180Ser) - rs121908966

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** Somatic mutations in NKX3-1 gene have been linked with several cancer types. Some of the somatic mutations in this gene are as follows:

    - c.226C>T (p.Gln76Ter) - rs369028182
    - c.304C>T (p.Arg102Cys) - rs1555486300

- **Related Disease:** Mutations in NKX3-1 gene have been linked with the development of several diseases, including prostate cancer, ovarian cancer, and breast cancer.

- **Treatment and Prognosis:** There are no specific targeted treatments for the mutations in the NKX3-1 gene. However, early diagnosis and aggressive treatment can help increase the chances of survival and improve quality of life.

- **Drug Response:** There is no information available on drug response related to the mutations in the NKX3-1 gene.

- **Related Papers:**

  - Author: Yoo YA, Roh M, Naseem A, et al.
    - Title: Tumour suppressive effect of SIRT4 in human prostate cancer cells.
    - Journal: Biochemical and biophysical research communications
    - DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2015.08.081
  
  - Author: Bhatia-Gaur R, Donjacour AA, Sciavolino PJ, et al.
    - Title: Roles for Nkx3.1 in prostate development and cancer.
    - Journal: Genes & development
    - DOI:  10.1101/gad.1015302

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**