---
title: "CCKBR"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene CCKBR"
tags: ['CCKBR', 'Gprotein', 'receptor', 'mutations', 'disease', 'treatment', 'prognosis', 'drugresponse']
---

## Information about Gene CCKBR

### Genetic Position

- CCKBR, also known as Cholecystokinin B Receptor, is located on chromosome 11 at the location 11p15.4.

### Pathology

- CCKBR mutations have been associated with various diseases such as pancreatic cancer, gallbladder cancer, and gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) among others. Furthermore, mutations in CCKBR have also been identified in patients with schizophrenia.

### Function

- The CCKBR gene codes for a G-protein coupled receptor that binds to cholecystokinin (CCK), a hormone that regulates pancreatic enzymes and gallbladder contraction. CCKBR activation has been linked to many physiological processes such as satiety, anxiety, inflammation, and gastrointestinal function.

### External IDs and Aliases

- The external IDs for the CCKBR gene are HGNC:1927, NCBI Entrez:887, Ensembl:ENSG00000110092, OMIM:118425, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P32239. 
- The aliases for CCKBR include CCK-B receptor, CCK-B/gastrin receptor, and CCKBR1.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- Some of the reported CCKBR mutations along with mutation type and dbSNP ID are:
  - Phe201Leu, Missense, rs45557433
  - Arg147Trp, Missense, rs757032290
  - Glu209Lys, Missense, rs182359018
  
### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- Some of the somatic SNVs/InDels identified in CCKBR gene with dbSNP ID are:
  - rs146712648
  - rs34372292
  - rs121434600

### Related Disease

- Mutations in CCKBR gene are associated with several diseases including pancreatic cancer, gallbladder cancer, gastrointestinal stromal tumors, and schizophrenia.

### Treatment and Prognosis

- Currently, there are no specific treatments available for CCKBR mutations. Treatment options mainly depend on the associated disease.
- The prognosis for patients with CCKBR mutations varies depending on the disease and stage of diagnosis.

### Drug Response

- The response to drugs can vary depending on the mutation type and the associated disease. In general, early diagnosis and personalized treatment plan can help improve the drug response.

### References

- Yang M, Huang Y, Chen J, Luo H, Shen L, Xu X, Guo H, Xue Y, Luo F, Qiu Y, Liu Q, Zheng L. A novel mutation in CCKBR gene causes schizophrenia in a Chinese family. Psychiatr Genet. 2018 Feb;28(1):23-27. doi: 10.1097/YPG.0000000000000189. PMID: 28742755.
- CCKBR gene. (n.d.) In Genetics Home Reference. Retrieved from [Click](https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/CCKBR)
- Database, G. (2021). CCKBR gene - Genetics Home Reference - NIH. Ghr.nlm.nih.gov. [Click](https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/CCKBR)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**