---
title: "SHANK3"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for SHANK3"
tags: ['SHANK3', 'SynapticScaffoldingProtein', 'PhelanMcDermidSyndrome', 'IntellectualDisability', 'NeurotransmitterReceptors', 'SignalTransduction', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation']
---

# Gene Information for SHANK3

## Basic Information
- **Gene Name**: SHANK3
- **Genomic Location**: Chromosome 22q13.33
- **Aliases**: ProSAP2, ProSAP2/Shank3, SPANK-2

## Function
SHANK3 encodes a protein that is part of the Shank protein family, which are synaptic scaffolding proteins. Shank proteins are involved in organizing signal transduction pathways in the postsynaptic density of neurons. Specifically, SHANK3 is responsible for organizing and anchoring neurotransmitter receptors, ion channels, and signaling proteins at synapses.

## External IDs and Sites
- **HGNC ID**: 16244
- **NCBI Entrez Gene ID**: 85358
- **Ensembl Gene ID**: ENSG00000187608
- **OMIM ID**: 606230
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID**: Q9BYB0

## Mutations
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type**:
    - p.Arg62*
        - *Type*: Nonsense mutation
        - *dbSNP ID*: rs766330778
    - p.Pro1123Leu
        - *Type*: Missense mutation
        - *dbSNP ID*: rs200138057
    - p.Val882Leu
        - *Type*: Missense mutation
        - *dbSNP ID*: rs11630151
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels**
    - There are currently no reported somatic SNVs or InDels for SHANK3.

## Related Diseases
- **Phelan-McDermid Syndrome**
    - This is a rare genetic disorder caused by deletions or mutations in the SHANK3 gene.
    - Symptoms include developmental delays, intellectual disability, and delayed or absent speech.
    - There is currently no cure for Phelan-McDermid Syndrome, and treatments are focused on managing symptoms.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is currently no cure for Phelan-McDermid Syndrome, and treatments are focused on managing symptoms.
- Prognosis varies depending on the severity of symptoms and the individual case.

## Drug Response
- Currently, there are no drugs specifically targeted to SHANK3.
- However, research is ongoing to find potential drug treatments for disorders related to the SHANK3 gene.

## References
- Liu Y, et al. (2020). "Compound heterozygous SHANK3 variants in a patient with severe intellectual disability with seizures: a case report". *BMC Med Genet*., doi: 10.1186/s12881-020-01143-w.
- Sarowar T, et al. (2021). "Shank3 as a potential therapeutic target for neuropsychiatric disorders". *Journal of Neurochemistry*., doi: 10.1111/jnc.15401.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**