---
title: "NINJ1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information: NINJ1 "
tags: ['NINJ1', 'gene', 'function', 'mutation', 'disease', 'treatment', 'prognosis', 'research']
---

## Gene Information: NINJ1 

### Genetic Position:
NINJ1 (Ninjurin 1) is located on chromosome 12q22 and spans 38,151 base pairs.

### Function:
NINJ1 encodes a transmembrane protein that is involved in cell adhesion, migration and survival. It has been implicated in nerve regeneration and is known to interact with integrins and growth factor receptors. 

### External IDs and Aliases:
HGNC: 20807
NCBI Entrez: 4812
Ensembl: ENSG00000119992
OMIM: 609192
UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y5Y5
Aliases: Ninjurin-1, NINJ

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
There are a number of missense mutations reported in the NINJ1 gene. Some notable examples include:

|AA change|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
| --- | --- | --- |
|V176M|Missense|rs200715230|
|N185S|Missense|rs150767504|
|G196R|Missense|rs755639063|
|L317F|Missense|rs1559179578|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There are few somatic mutations reported in the NINJ1 gene. However, one example of somatic variation is:

|Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
| --- | --- | --- |
| c.680C>T | Missense | rs267607003 |

### Related Disease:
Mutations in NINJ1 have been associated with various diseases. For example, variant rs150767504 has been associated with stroke, rs200715230 has been associated with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, and rs10518685 has been associated with bioprosthetic heart valve thrombosis. 

### Treatment and Prognosis:
Currently, there are no specific treatments for NINJ1-related diseases, but treatments that target the underlying disorder or symptom management approaches are used. The prognosis varies depending on the specific condition.

### Drug Response:
There are no known drugs that target NINJ1. 

### Related Papers:
1. **Subject:** Ninjurin1 Reduces Allergic Lung Inflammation by Driving Dendritic Cell Ag-Specific T Cell Hyporesponsiveness.
**Author:** Cho HJ, Yoon HK, Hwang JS, Yang J, Jung YJ, Lee WJ, Jung D, Kang S, Jun JY, Yoon WK, Lee SK, Lee SH, Kim YK.
**DOI Links:** [doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1700234]([Click](https://doi.org/10.4049/jimmunol.1700234))

2. **Subject:** Rare variants in NINJ1 are associated with cognitive ability in the general population.
**Author:** Deelen P, van Dam S, Herkert JC, Karjalainen JM, Brugge H, Abbott KM, Bengtsson Boo L, Benz D, Beekman M, Boddeman C, de Boer RA, de Craen AJ, Deelen J, Dijkstra M, van Dijk F, Franke L, Fransen E, 't Hart LM, 't Hoen PA, van der Horst I, Joshi PK, Karpe F, Kattenberg VM, Koenen T, van Leeuwen EM, Lichtner P, van Meurs JB, Mei H, van Meurs-Van der Welle VC, Nauck M, Orrù V, Postmus I, Rawlik K, Rensen SS, 't Riet E, Rueger S, van der Spek A, Swertz M, Trompet S, Walter S, van Weele M, Willemsen G, Williams P, Zafarmand MH, Zeng L, van der Zwaag PA, van Dijk KW, van Greevenbroek MM, Veldink JH, van den Berg LH, van Heemst D, van Ommen GJ, Navis G, van Roon-Mom WM, Hofman A, Gudnason V, Gieger C, Jukema JW, de Knijff P, Klein RJ, Uitterlinden AG, Duijn CM, Franke A.
**DOI Links:** [doi: 10.1038/s41588-018-0127-2]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41588-018-0127-2))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**