---
title: "ALPK3"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene ALPK3"
tags: ['ALPK3', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticPosition', 'Aliases', 'RelatedPapers', 'NoKnownPathologies', 'NoKnownDiseases', 'NoKnownTreatments']
---

# Information about gene ALPK3

## Genetic Position
The gene ALPK3 is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 (1q21.3).

## Pathology
There are currently no known pathological conditions associated with the ALPK3 gene.

## Function
The ALPK3 gene encodes a protein called "alpha-kinase 3" which is believed to play a role in the growth and differentiation of cells.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 20792
- NCBI Entrez: 200894
- Ensembl: ENSG00000162781
- OMIM: 609048
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96B36

Aliases:
- AAK1L2
- DKFZP434P1817

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known amino acid mutations associated with the ALPK3 gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known somatic SNVs/InDels associated with the ALPK3 gene.

## Related Diseases
There are currently no known diseases associated with the ALPK3 gene.

## Treatment and prognosis
As there are currently no known pathological conditions associated with the ALPK3 gene, there are also no known treatments or prognoses.

## Drug response
There is currently no information available regarding drug response and the ALPK3 gene.

## Related Papers
- Subject: "Identification and characterization of human alpha-kinases: Implications for diseases"
- Author: Ryota Tamura, et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2008.03.008

- Subject: "Genetic linkage analysis of a Pakistani family with autosomal recessive infantile-onset spinocerebellar ataxia leading to identification of a novel locus on chromosome 1"
- Author: Muhammad Ishaq, et al.
- DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0145908

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**