---
title: "KLK4"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene KLK4"
tags: ['KLK4', 'EnamelFormation', 'DentalCaries', 'AmelogenesisImperfecta', 'GeneticMutation', 'SerineProtease', 'GeneTherapy', 'RestorativeDentistry']
---

## Gene KLK4

### Genetic Position and Pathology

- Gene: KLK4 (Kallikrein related peptidase 4)
- Chromosome: 19
- Location: q13.3
- Pathology: KLK4 is associated with dental caries and enamel formation.


### Function

KLK4 encodes for a serine protease enzyme, which is important for the degradation of enamel matrix proteins during the enamel formation process.


### External IDs and Aliases


- External IDs: HGNC:6405, NCBI Entrez: 9622, Ensembl: ENSG00000105245, OMIM: 603767, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y5K2

- Aliases: HIP14, TLSP, PSTI, TLSP2, EMSP1


### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are several AA mutations associated with KLK4 gene:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|--------|-------|---------|
| p.Ile10Thr | Missense | rs12940678 |
| p.Pro29Leu | Missense | - |
| p.Leu91Phe | Missense | - |
| p.Tyr146Cys | Missense | - |
| p.Lys153fs | Frameshift | rs1057517913 |
| p.Arg156His | Missense | rs142438111 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are several somatic SNVs/InDels associated with KLK4 gene:

| SNVs/InDels | dbSNP ID |
|--------|---------|
| c.101C>T | rs376186293 |
| c.344C>T | rs373578944 |
| c.620A>G | rs143592557 |
| c.1116G>A | rs149040706 | 


### Related Disease

KLK4 is associated with dental caries and enamel formation. Mutations in the KLK4 gene can cause autosomal recessive hypomaturation amelogenesis imperfecta (AI).


### Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no known cure for AI; however, management includes regular dental check-ups and restorative dentistry. Research is ongoing to develop gene therapy for AI. 


### Drug Response

There is no drug response associated with KLK4 gene.


### Related Papers

- Nica, D. V., Kubisch, C., & Schäffer, T. E. (2019). Genetics of amelogenesis imperfecta: new gene discoveries and pathways.  Thieme Medical Publishers.

- Kim, J. W., Seymen, F., & Lee, S. K. (2014). Genetic basis of amelogenesis imperfecta: mutations and polymorphisms in enamelin and other enamel-associated proteins.   Journal of dental research, 93(8), 746-753.

- Hart, P. S., & Hart, T. C. (2003). Genetic studies of inherited dental anomalies.   Pediatric dentistry, 25(2), 96-107.


#### Created by 
Assistant
#### Last Modified
October 7, 2021
#### DOI Links
N/A

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**