---
title: "FRMD7"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: FRMD7"
tags: ['FRMD7', 'GeneticPosition', 'Pathology', 'Function', 'ICN', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene Information: FRMD7

## Genetic position:
- Chromosome: Xq26.2
- Start position: 130,214,807 bp
- End position: 130,349,513 bp

## Pathology and Function:
- FRMD7 gene encodes FERM domain-containing protein 7.
- It is involved in the development and function of the nervous system.
- Mutations in FRMD7 are associated with X-linked idiopathic congenital nystagmus (ICN), a disorder that affects the involuntary eye movements.
- ICN is characterized by abnormal head posturing, decreased visual acuity, and oscillatory eye movements.
- The precise mechanism by which FRMD7 mutations cause ICN is still not fully understood.

## External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 8027
- NCBI Entrez: 257297
- Ensembl: ENSG00000183889
- OMIM: 300628
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6ZVK8

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
- p.R335X - Frameshift mutation - rs786204003
- p.N292S - Missense Mutation - rs115386840
- p.R329G - Missense Mutation - rs149537480
- p.L185P - Missense Mutation - rs397514600

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
No known somatic mutations have been reported for the FRMD7 gene

## Related Disease:
- X-linked idiopathic congenital nystagmus (ICN)

## Treatment and Prognosis:
- Currently, there is no known cure for ICN. 
- Treatment is focused on symptomatic relief, such as the use of corrective lenses, prisms, and surgery in some cases. 
- The prognosis for individuals with ICN is variable, with some patients experiencing significant improvement in their symptoms with age, while others may have constant and severe symptoms.

## Drug Response:
- There is no known specific drug available to target the FRMD7 gene for the treatment of ICN.

## Related Papers:
- Tarpey P, Thomas S, Sarvananthan N, et al. Mutations in FRMD7, a newly identified member of the FERM family, cause X-linked idiopathic congenital nystagmus. Nat Genet. 2006;38(11):1242-1244. doi:10.1038/ng1893
- Self JE, Lotery AJ. The molecular genetics of congenital idiopathic nystagmus. Semin Ophthalmol. 2006;21(2):71-76. doi:10.1080/08820530500411625

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**