---
title: "COL5A2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['COL5A2', 'EhlersDanlosSyndrome', 'ConnectiveTissueDisorders', 'FibrillarCollagen', 'GeneticMutations', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene Information

- **Gene:** COL5A2
- **Pathology:** Collagen, type V, alpha 2 (COL5A2) is involved in the synthesis of type V collagen which is a minor fibrillar collagen in most tissues that occurs in association with type I collagen. Mutations in this gene can cause Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS).
- **Function:** Type V collagen is a minor component of the fibrillar collagen family but is distributed widely in tissues. Evidence suggests that Type V collagen in association with Type I collagen plays a role in fibrillogenesis and extracellular matrix organization, and provides mechanical strength and shape to tissues.
- **External IDs and Genomic Location:**

| Database | ID |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| HGNC | 2193 |
| NCBI Entrez | 1297 |
| Ensembl | ENSG00000165060 |
| OMIM | 120190 |
| UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot | P05997 |
| Genomic Location | Chromosome 2:189,144,437-189,163,264 |

- **Aliases:** EDSC, EDSVDC2

- **AA Mutation List:**

|Mutation|Mutation type|dbSNP ID|
|-------------|-------------|-------------|
|p.Gln1225*|nonsense|rs1064796793|
|p.G30D|missense|rs267606805|
|p.G1014E|missense|rs267606804|
|p.Gly413Val|missense|rs1554009229|
|p.Arg1810Pro|missense|rs267606803|

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:**

There are currently no somatic mutations reported for COL5A2 gene in COSMIC.

- **Related Diseases:**

Mutations in COL5A2 can cause EDS which is a group of inherited connective tissue disorders that leads to hypermobility, skin changes, and weakened blood vessels and organs. EDS has 13 subtypes, and COL5A2 mutations can cause the classical subtype (EDS type I).

- **Treatment and Prognosis:**

There is currently no cure for EDS, and treatment is tailored to the specific symptoms of each patient. Patients commonly undergo physical therapy to improve joint stability and strengthen muscles. Surgery may also be required to repair damaged joints or organs in certain cases. The prognosis for EDS varies depending on subtype and severity.

- **Drug Response:**

There is not enough data available to determine drug response for EDS caused by COL5A2 mutations. However, some patients may benefit from treatment for specific symptoms such as pain management medication or hypertension medication in the case of weakened blood vessels.

- **References:**

1. Wenstrup RJ, Meyer RA, Lyle JS, Hoechstetter L, Rose PS, Levy HP, Francomano CA. Prevalence of a physician-documented diagnosis of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome in patients with pericardial and/or mitral valve prolapse. Am J Med Genet. 2002 Jul 15;110(2):97-102. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.10203. PMID: 12116246.
2. Malfait F, Francomano C, Byers P, Belmont J, Berglund B, Black J, Bloom L, Bowen JM, Brady AF, Burrows NP, Castori M, Cohen H, Colombi M, Demirdas S, De Backer J, De Paepe A, Fournel-Gigleux S, Frank M, Ghali N, Giunta C, Grahame R, Hakim A, Jeunemaitre X, Johnson D, Juul-Kristensen B, Kapferer-Seebacher I, Kazkaz H, Kosho T, Lavallee ME, Levy H, Mendoza-Londono R, Pepin M, Pope FM, Reinstein E, Robert L, Rohrbach M, Sanders L, Sobey GJ, Van Damme T, Vandersteen A, van Mourik C, Voermans N, Wheeldon N, Zschocke J, Tinkle B. 2017 international classification of the Ehlers-Danlos syndromes. Am J Med Genet C Semin Med Genet. 2017 Mar;175(1):8-26. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.c.31552. PMID: 28306229.
3. Swiss-Prot: P05997. Collagen alpha-2(V) chain [Homo sapiens (Human)]. P05997 | CO5A2_HUMAN. Accessed August 4, 2021. [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/P05997)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**