---
title: "LAS1L"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene LAS1L"
tags: ['LAS1L', 'RibosomeBiogenesis', 'IntellectualDisability', 'FacialDysmorphism', 'DevelopmentalAbnormalities', 'MissenseMutation', 'SynonymousMutation', 'TreatmentOptions']
---

# Information about gene LAS1L

LAS1L is a gene that encodes for the LAS1-like ribosome biogenesis factor. Mutations in LAS1L have been associated with genetic diseases, including facial dysmorphism, intellectual disability, and other developmental abnormalities.

Function: LAS1L is involved in the biogenesis of ribosomes, which are cellular complexes that synthesize proteins.

External IDs: 

- Gene: LAS1L
- Genomic location: Chromosome 12q24.33 
- Aliases: FLJ21312, DKFZp434L0115 

External sites: 

- HGNC: 23159 
- NCBI Entrez: 81887 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000186482 
- OMIM: 611261 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5BJD6 

AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID: 

| AA Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-----------|---------------|----------|
| L7R       | Missense      | rs367732726 |
| S328I     | Missense      | rs763350377 |
| L87L*     | Synonymous   | rs144243417 |

Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

There is no record of any somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID.

Related disease: 

Mutations in LAS1L have been linked to developmental disorders, including intellectual disability, and facial dysmorphism.

Treatment and prognosis: 

There is currently no known cure for diseases caused by mutations in LAS1L. Treatment is usually based on the symptoms and severity of the disease.

Drug response: 

There is no known drug that is specifically targeted towards LAS1L mutations.

Related paper: 

- Title: Mutation of LAS1L is associated with intellectual disability and developmental delay 
- Author: Tawamie, H., Alsemari, A., Al-Yacoub, N., et al. 
- DOI: 10.1038/ng.2670.

- Title: Mutations in LAS1L, a ribosome biogenesis factor, cause X-linked intellectual disability and progressive cerebellar atrophy 
- Author: Haack, T. B., Ignatius, E., Calvo-Garrido, J., et al. 
- DOI: 10.1038/ng.2906.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**