---
title: "TCIRG1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene TCIRG1"
tags: ['TCIRG1', 'Osteopetrosis', 'BoneResorption', 'GeneticDisorder', 'ProtonPump', 'Mutation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene TCIRG1

### Genetic Position
The TCIRG1 gene is located on chromosome 11 at the position q13.2.

### Pathology
Mutations in the TCIRG1 gene cause autosomal recessive osteopetrosis type 1, a rare genetic disorder characterized by increased bone density and skeletal abnormalities. 

### Function
The TCIRG1 gene provides instructions for making a protein called the osteoclast proton pump. This protein works with other proteins to control the acidity (pH) inside bone surfaces. It is essential for the process of bone resorption, where old bone tissue is removed and replaced with new bone tissue.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 11614
- NCBI Entrez:  TCIRG1
- Ensembl: ENSG00000110105
- OMIM: 604592
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13488

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Glu70Ter - Nonsense - rs104893906
- p.Gly661Ser - Missense - rs111033551
- p.Ala278Val - Missense - rs104893907

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no somatic SNVs/InDels reported for the TCIRG1 gene.

### Related Disease
The TCIRG1 gene is associated with the following diseases:
- Autosomal Recessive Osteopetrosis Type 1 (ARO1)

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for ARO1; however, there are a few treatment options available to manage symptoms, including bone marrow transplants and hematopoietic stem-cell transplants. The prognosis for individuals with ARO1 varies depending on the severity of the disease and the age of onset.

### Drug Response
Information about drug response for the TCIRG1 gene is currently unavailable.

### Related Papers
- Sobacchi, C., & Schulz, A. (2010). Osteoclastogenesis: the role of the immune system and the genetical perspective. In J. V. Bostwick (Ed.), Current Immunology Reviews (Vol. 6, pp. 147-165). Bentham Science Publishers. DOI: 10.2174/157339510791823914
- Pangrazio, A., Caldana, E., & Sauer, A. V. (2019). Update on osteopetrosis. Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences, 76(23), 4617-4631. DOI: 10.1007/s00018-019-03203-9

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**