---
title: "RAI1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene RAI1"
tags: ['GeneRAI1', 'TranscriptionalRegulator', 'SmithMagenisSyndrome', 'IntellectualDisability', 'SleepDisturbances', 'BehavioralProblems', 'Melatonin', 'PsychotropicMedications']
---

# Gene RAI1

### Gene Information:
- **Function:** The RAI1 gene encodes a protein that functions as a transcriptional regulator, which plays a crucial role in the development and function of the nervous system.
- **External IDs & Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 9821
    - NCBI Entrez: 10743
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000118016
    - OMIM: 607642
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q7Z5J4

### Mutation Information:
- **AA Mutation List:** There are several mutations associated with the RAI1 gene.
- **Mutation Types:** Missense mutations, frame-shift mutations, nonsense mutations, and splice-site mutations.
- **dbSNP ID:** Some of the common dbSNP IDs for RAI1 mutations are: rs121908401, rs281875547, rs369309785, rs371622539, rs794727747, rs530906009, rs796065049.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels:
- **dbSNP ID:** There are several somatic SNVs/InDels associated with the RAI1 gene. Some of the common dbSNP IDs for somatic SNVs/indels are: rs147942575, rs147942576, rs147942577, rs147942579.

### Related Disease:
- **Disease:** Smith-Magenis Syndrome (SMS). This disease is caused by the deletion of a small piece of chromosome 17p11.2, which includes the RAI1 gene.
- **Symptoms:** Intellectual disability, delayed speech and language skills, sleep disturbances, behavioral problems, distinctive facial features, physical abnormalities.
- **Prognosis:** The prognosis for SMS is variable, with most individuals experiencing lifelong symptoms and requiring assistance in daily life.

### Drug Response:
- There is no specific drug treatment for Smith-Magenis Syndrome. However, various medications can be used to improve the symptoms associated with this disease, such as melatonin for sleep disturbances, and psychotropic medications for behavioral problems.

### Related Papers:
- **Subject:** The genetic basis of Smith-Magenis Syndrome
- **Author:** Sarah M. Elsea,Jennifer B.  Roeder,Erich Rojas Martinez
- **DOI:** 10.3390/genes10020157

- **Subject:** Comprehensive clinical and molecular analysis of 12 families with Type 1 SRS/Angelman Syndrome-like phenotype reinforces different genetic etiologies
- **Author:** Garazi Aldunate,Josune García-Romero,Elena Vallespín,Isabel Mena-Mollá,Jimena Martínez-Palazzo,Marta Martín,Mai-Linh Le,Qiaojuan Jing,Dianella Savino,Rafael Ramos-Prat,Montserrat Milà
- **DOI:** 10.1038/s41598-019-48251-5

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**