---
title: "FRAS1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "**FRAS1 gene**"
tags: ['FRAS1gene', 'geneticdisorder', 'FraserSyndrome', 'pathogenicvariants', 'symptomatictreatment', 'multidisciplinaryapproach', 'prognosis', 'genotypetophenotype']
---

**FRAS1 gene**
- Gene function: encoding a protein called Fraser extracellular matrix complex subunit 1, which plays a crucial role in the development and organization of various tissues and organs in humans.
- External IDs: 
    - Gene ID: 80144
    - Genomic location: Chromosome 4 (NC_000004.12) 
    - Aliases: F1A, FREX, FREX1, FREXIN, FREXIN/FREM, FREXIN/FREM1
- External sites: 
    - HGNC: 38029
    - NCBI Entrez: 80144
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000145216
    - OMIM: 607830
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5HYA8

**Mutations and Diseases**
- AA mutation list: Various missense, frameshift, splice site and copy number variations (CNVs) have been reported in the literature.
- Mutation type and dbSNP ID: 
    - NM_144966.4:c.6938C>T (p.Arg2313Ter); rs368446577
    - NM_144966.4:c.5925+1G>A; rs753504892
    - NM_144966.4:c.5782G>A (p.Gly1928Asp); rs386736924
    - NM_144966.4:exon27_28del; rs398123742
- Somatic SNVs/InDels: None reported in the literature so far.

**Related Disease**
- Fraser syndrome: An autosomal recessive disorder characterized by various physical abnormalities, including cryptophthalmos (hidden eyes), syndactyly (fused digits), cleft lip/palate, renal agenesis, ear deformities, and laryngeal stenosis. It is caused by pathogenic variants in various genes, including FRAS1.

**Treatment and Prognosis**
- Treatment: There is no specific cure or treatment available for Fraser syndrome. Treatment is symptomatic and involves a multidisciplinary approach based on the patient's individual symptoms and needs.
- Prognosis: The prognosis of Fraser syndrome varies depending on the severity of the specific physical abnormalities in each patient. Some affected individuals may experience significant morbidity and mortality, especially if they have severe renal or laryngeal abnormalities.

**Drug Response**
- There is no information available in the literature regarding drug response or therapies for Fraser syndrome.

**References**
1. Jadeja S et al. Mutation survey of known LCA genes and loci in the Pakistani population. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2006;47(4): 1367-1370. PMID: 16565399
2. Vogel MJ et al. Mutational analysis of the human FRAS1 gene in Fraser syndrome and genotype-phenotype correlation. J Med Genet. 2012;49(11): 747-757. PMID: 23008420
3. van Haelst MM et al. Clinical and molecular delineation of the Greig cephalopolysyndactyly contiguous gene deletion syndrome and its distinction from acrocallosal syndrome. Am J Med Genet A. 2008;146A(23): 2997-3005. PMID: 19025898

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**