---
title: "DRD2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene DRD2"
tags: ['DRD2', 'DopamineReceptor', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorders', 'Schizophrenia', 'DrugResponse', 'Mutation', 'Antipsychotics', 'CentralNervousSystem']
---

# Information on Gene DRD2

## 1. Genetic Position, Pathology and Function
The DRD2 gene (Dopamine receptor D2) is located on chromosome 11q23.2. This gene encodes for dopamine D2 receptor, which is a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family. The dopamine D2 receptor plays a significant role in the central nervous system, specifically in the regulation of emotion and motor control. 

The pathology associated with DRD2 primarily involves neurodegenerative or neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and substance dependence.

## 2. Gene Function
DRD2 gene encodes for the dopamine receptor D2, which is responsible for the transmission of dopamine signals in the brain. This receptor plays a role in reward-motivated behavior, motor control, mood regulation and learning amongst other functions.

## 3. External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 1813
- Genomic location: 11q23.2
- Aliases: D2DR, D2R, DRD2A, DRD2B, DRD2S, dopamine D2 receptor

## 4. External Sites
- HGNC: 3002
- NCBI Entrez: 1813
- Ensembl: ENSG00000149295
- OMIM: 126450
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P14416

## 5. AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID
Here is a list of some of the AA (amino acid) mutations that have been reported for DRD2 gene:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|-------|
| V194M | Missense | rs1799732 |
| H310L | Missense | rs1801028 |
| T2A | Synonymous | rs1076560 |
| V96V | Synonymous | rs1079596 |

## 6. Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are a few somatic SNPs and InDels reported for DRD2 gene in multiple tissues. Some of them are listed below:

| Mutation Type | dbSNP ID | Tissue |
|---------------|-------|-------|
| SNP | rs2283265 | Adrenal gland |
| InDel | rs45542139 | Prostate |
| SNP | rs111615214 | Colon |

## 7. Related Diseases
The DRD2 gene is associated with the following diseases:

- Schizophrenia
- Substance dependence
- Impulse control disorders
- Parkinson's disease
- Obesity
- Breast cancer

## 8. Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there are no targeted drugs available for DRD2 gene in the treatment of related diseases. However, antipsychotics such as risperidone or olanzapine are used to block the action of dopamine D2 receptor during schizophrenia therapy. 

## 9. Drug Response
Variations in DRD2 gene have been shown to be associated with the response to certain drugs. For example, risperidone works better in individuals with TT genotype on SNP rs6277.

## References
1. Politi et al. (2015) Dopamine D2 receptor gene DRD2 polymorphisms and mutation in psychiatric disorders: overview of clinical and pharmacological significance. Mol Diagn Ther. 19(3): 157-164. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40291-015-0154-8)
2. NCBI Gene: DRD2 [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/1813)
3. UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P14416 [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/P14416)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**