---
title: "CA5A"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: CA5A"
tags: ['CA5A', 'CarbonicAnhydrase', 'GeneFunction', 'RelatedDisease', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticPosition', 'SomaticMutations']
---

# Gene: CA5A

## Genetic Position

CA5A gene is located on chromosome 16 (16q24.3) and its genomic coordinates are from 87,584,628 to 87,606,221 base pairs.

## Pathology

CA5A gene encodes for the Carbonic anhydrase 5A protein which catalyzes the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. Its role in pathology is not well understood but studies have suggested its involvement in the acid-base regulation of the body and its dysregulation has been associated with some pathogenic conditions such as cancer.

## Function

The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the carbonic anhydrase family of enzymes. Carbonic anhydrases appear to participate in diverse biological processes, including respiration, calcification, and electrolyte balance.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: 1370
- NCBI Entrez: 763
- Ensembl: ENSG00000131473
- OMIM: 114840
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P35218
- Gene Aliases: CA-V, CA5, CAVA

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- No mutations were found in AA sequence for CA5A gene in dbSNP database.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- No somatic SNVs or InDels were found for CA5A gene in the dbSNP database.

## Related Disease

Studies have suggested the involvement of CA5A in some pathogenic conditions such as cancer. For example, in one study, CA5A was found to be overexpressed in glioma cells compared to normal cells. Further research is needed to better understand its role in disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no targeted treatment available for conditions related to CA5A gene. Prognosis depends on the specific disease associated with the dysregulation of the protein.

## Drug Response

There is currently no information available about drug response related to CA5A gene.

## Related Papers

- [Identification of carbonic anhydrase 5A (CA5A) as a target for enhancement of oxaliplatin-induced cell death via a RNAi screening of target genes in gastrointestinal cancer cells]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12885-017-3556-5))
- [Proteomic profiling of the effect of high glucose and its inhibition by epigallocatechin gallate on the expression of secreted proteins in THP-1-derived macrophages]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/1477-5956-9-10)) 

## Instructions

Please provide information about a gene by following the outlined structure:

- Introduction
- Genetic Position
- Pathology
- Function
- External IDs and Aliases
- AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Related disease
- Treatment and Prognosis
- Drug Response
- Related Papers

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**