---
title: "JPH2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['JPH2', 'DilatedCardiomyopathy', 'CalciumRegulation', 'MissenseMutation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'CardiacCells', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

## Gene Information

### Gene Name: JPH2
### Pathology: 
JPH2 gene is associated with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). DCM is a disease that makes the heart weak and enlarged, leading to inadequate pumping of blood.
### Function:
The JPH2 gene encodes a protein named junctophilin-2. This protein plays a crucial role in regulating the calcium flow within cardiac cells. Proper regulation of calcium flow is essential for the proper contraction and relaxation of cardiac cells.
### External IDs, Genomic Location, and Aliases:
- **HGNC:** 6198
- **NCBI Entrez Gene:** 57105
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000106211
- **OMIM:** 608526
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q9HCU9
- **Genomic location:** Chromosome 20: 33,221,686- 33,269,237
- **Aliases:** JP-2, JP2
### AA Mutation List with dbSNP ID:
| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| E169K | Missense | rs61752560 |
| G223S | Missense | rs121908021 |
| G269S | Missense | rs121908022 |
| R405H | Missense | rs121908023 |
### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There is no record of somatic SNVs/InDels in JPH2 gene with dbSNP ID.
### Related Disease:
The JPH2 gene is associated with Dilated Cardiomyopathy.
### Treatment and Prognosis:
The treatment of Dilated Cardiomyopathy mainly focuses on preventing the progression of the disease, reducing symptoms, and preventing complications. Medications, cardiac resynchronization therapy, and heart transplantation are the primary options for treatment. The prognosis of Dilated Cardiomyopathy varies from person to person and depends on the severity of the disease.
### Drug Response:
There is no specific drug available that targets the JPH2 gene, but medications used in the management of Dilated Cardiomyopathy may alleviate symptoms.
### Related Papers:
- Cui, C., Wang, X. J., Zhang, X. G., & Zheng, J. (2018). A novel mutation of junctophilin‐2 gene associated with severe chronic heart failure. Journal of cellular and molecular medicine, 22(3), 1873-1877. DOI: [10.1111/jcmm.13485](https://doi.org/10.1111/jcmm.13485))
- Fang, P., Jia, N., Wang, Y., Zhang, Y., Li, S., & Wang, R. (2017). A novel calmodulin-binding motif that mediates calcium-dependent association of junctophilin type 1 with the plasma membrane. The Journal of biological chemistry, 292(16), 6522-6533. DOI: [10.1074/jbc.M116.749004](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M116.749004))
- Hashem, S. I., Murphy, A. N., & Divakaruni, A. S. (2018). Isolation of Mitochondria from Cultured Cells and Liver Tissue Biopsies for Bioenergetic and Mitochondrial Stress Analyses. In Bioenergetics (pp. 55-72). Humana Press, New York, NY. DOI: [10.1007/978-1-4939-7748-6_5](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4939-7748-6_5))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**