---
title: "MYBPC1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information Analysis Report for Gene MYBPC1"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'MYBPC1', 'MuscleContraction', 'Myopathy', 'MissenseVariation', 'AutosomalDominant', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Genetic Information Analysis Report for Gene MYBPC1

## Gene Information
- **Function:** The MYBPC1 gene encodes a protein, Myosin-binding protein C, which is involved in muscle contraction and development.
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 7585
    - NCBI Entrez: 4605
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000101381
    - OMIM: 160794
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q00872
- **Aliases:** C-protein, slow skeletal muscle

## Genetic Position
- **Chromosome:** 12
- **Genomic Position:** 11.28 - 11.33 Mb (GRCh38)

## Mutations
- **AA Mutations:**

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-|-|-|
|P370S|Missense Variation|rs139568063|
|E258K|Missense Variation|rs1558532648|
|G803R|Missense Variation|rs201417643|
|R943X|Stopgain|rs797045252|

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:**
There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels for MYBPC1.

## Related Diseases
- **Myopathy, Myosin Storage (OMIM: 608358):** This is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in MYBPC1 that leads to the accumulation of myosin filaments in muscle fibers.
- **Myopathy, Fast-Twitch, Autosomal Dominant (OMIM: 617064):** This is also an autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in MYBPC1, leading to muscle weakness and wasting.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for Myopathy, Myosin Storage and Myopathy, Fast-Twitch, Autosomal Dominant. Treatment mainly involves managing symptoms such as weakness and muscle wasting through physical therapy, mobility aids, and medication if necessary. The prognosis for individuals with these conditions varies widely depending on the severity of the disease and the age of onset.

## Drug Response
There is no known drug therapy specific to treat MYBPC1-related diseases.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** MYBPC1 mutations cause autosomal dominant MYH7-related myopathies
- **Author(s):** Schoser, B., Goebel, H.H., Janisch, I.R. et al.
- **DOI Link:** [10.1212/WNL.0000000000000994]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1212/WNL.0000000000000994)

- **Subject:** Myosin storage myopathy: Slow skeletal myosin (MYH7) mutation in two hyperkinetic disorders with muscle storage.
- **Author(s):** Selcen, D., Engel, A.G.
- **DOI Link:** [10.1002/mus.22094]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/mus.22094)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**