---
title: "FMN2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information About Gene FMN2"
tags: ['GeneFMN2', 'CharcotMarieToothDisease', 'ActinCytoskeleton', 'MissenseMutation', 'PeripheralNeuropathies', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'NCBIDatabase']
---

# Information About Gene FMN2

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
- Gene Name: FMN2
- Chromosomal Location: 1p36.21
- Pathology: Mutations in FMN2 are associated with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT), which is a group of inherited peripheral neuropathies characterized by muscle weakness and wasting, as well as sensory loss.
- Function: FMN2 encodes for a protein called formin-2, which is involved in the actin cytoskeleton remodeling and organization.

## Gene Information
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 12654
    - NCBI Entrez: 340061
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000117309
    - OMIM: 606989
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q63HN8
- Aliases: FHOD2, C1orf36, dJ40F20.2

## Mutations and Variations
- AA Mutation List:
    - p.Leu820Phe (rs121909257)
    - p.Pro942Leu (rs376878975)
- Mutation Type: Missense
- Somatic SNVs/InDels:
    - No known somatic mutations

## Related Diseases
- Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is currently no cure for Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, and treatment options are focused on managing the symptoms.
- The severity and course of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease can vary widely, depending on the specific genetic mutation and individual factors such as age and overall health.

## Drug Response
- Information on drug response is currently limited, but research is ongoing.

## Related Papers and Links
- Giorda R, et al. (2016) A compound heterozygous FHOD1/FHOD3 gene mutation in a Cypriot family with autosomal recessive spastic paraplegia. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00439-016-1685-2)
- FMN2 gene overview in the NCBI database. [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/340061)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**