---
title: "SERPINA6"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: SERPINA6"
tags: ['SERPINA6', 'Thrombophilia', 'VTE', 'Mutation', 'Hemostasis', 'AntiCoagulation', 'Warfarin', 'Droxidopa']
---

# Gene: SERPINA6

## Genetic Position 
SERPINA6 is positioned on chromosome 14q32.1.

## Pathology 
SERPINA6 mutation leads to decreased levels of protein Z-dependent protease inhibitor (ZPI) and various inheritance disorders such as venous thromboembolism(VTE), stroke, and coronary artery disease (CAD). 

## Function
The SERPINA6 gene encodes ZPI, which is a serine protease inhibitor that regulates the activity of factor Xa/factor Va on prothrombinase complex. Therefore, it helps to prevent thrombosis.

## External IDs and Aliases
- External ID: HGNC: 15353
- Genomic location: Chr 14:89,279,772-89,287,674
- Aliases: PCI, HNFZPI

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg67His (rs121918447)
- p.Asn135Asp (rs80338603)
- p.Asn135Ser (rs80338604)
- Frameshift mutation p.Cys39Tyrfs*46 (rs786205249)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
- rs738409 (c.181C>A)
- rs121918447 (c.241G>A)

## Related Diseases 
SERPINA6 is responsible for various inherited thrombophilia disorders and its mutation is associated with venous thromboembolism (VTE), stroke, and coronary artery disease (CAD).

## Treatment and Prognosis 
SERPINA6 mutations cause abnormalities in hemostasis and is associated with a predisposition to thrombotic disorders. Anti-coagulation therapy is the standard treatment for VTE. Patients with HNFZPI deficiency have the same risk of thrombosis as those with FV mutation.

## Drug Response
Therapeutic options include using vitamin K antagonists, like Warfarin and droxidopa, an L-Dopa precursor that increases endogenous norepinephrine. 

## Related Papers 
- Subject: Characterization of 13 novel mutations in the SERPINA6 gene.
Author: Walterio Mayen Kantis et al.
DOI: 10.1177/1076029608326635

- Subject: Hereditary ZPI Deficiency and the Risk for Development of Venous Thromboembolism.
Author: J. Veenstra van Nieuwenhoven et al.
DOI: 10.1200/PO.17.00052

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**