---
title: "FAM126A"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene FAM126A"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'FAM126A', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'MyelinFormation', 'MissenseVariants', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'ExomeSequencing']
---

# Information on Gene FAM126A

## Gene Position and Aliases
- **Gene**: FAM126A (family with sequence similarity 126 member A)
- **Chromosome**: 7
- **Location**: q11.22
- **Aliases**: DRCTNNB1A, FLJ20332, N91, C7orf50

## Gene Function
FAM126A is a protein-coding gene that plays a crucial role in the formation and maintenance of myelin, the fatty substance that insulates nerve fibers in the brain and spinal cord. Mutations in this gene lead to various neurological disorders such as Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, hereditary motor neuropathy, and demyelinating neuropathies.

## External IDs and Sites
- **HGNC**: HGNC:17736
- **NCBI Entrez**: 253558
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000152463
- **OMIM**: 610099
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: Q6P1J9

## Mutations
- **AA mutation list**: p.Ala185Val, p.Gly202Arg, p.Pro344Ser
- **Mutation type**: Missense variants
- **dbSNP ID**: rs387907282, rs150799368, rs375044288

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
No somatic SNVs or InDels have been reported for this gene.

## Related Diseases
Mutations in FAM126A have been associated with several neurological disorders, including:
- Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease
- Hereditary motor neuropathy
- Demyelinating neuropathies

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for genetic disorders caused by FAM126A mutations. Treatment options focus on managing the symptoms and preventing disease progression. Physical therapy, occupational therapy, and orthotic devices to provide support and improve mobility are some common treatment approaches. The prognosis for individuals with FAM126A mutations varies depending on the type and severity of the disease.

## Drug Response
There is limited information available on drug response to FAM126A mutations. 

## Related Papers
- **Author**: Auer-Grumbach M, et al.
  - **Title**: Whole exome sequencing in patients with Charcot-Marie-Tooth neuropathy 
  - **DOI**: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2012-101284
  
- **Author**: Motley WW, et al.
  - **Title**: Charcot-Marie-Tooth-linked mutant GARS is toxic to peripheral neurons independent of wild-type GARS levels 
  - **DOI**: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4334-12.2013

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**