---
title: "DFNB59"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene DFNB59"
tags: ['DFNB59', 'HearingLoss', 'Pejvakin', 'Mutation', 'Genetics', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Research']
---

# Information about Gene DFNB59

## Genetic Position
DFNB59 is a gene located on chromosome 2q31.1.

## Pathology
Mutations in the DFNB59 gene have been associated with autosomal recessive non-syndromic hearing loss (ARNSHL).

## Function
DFNB59 encodes a protein called pejvakin, which is involved in the maintenance and function of sensory hair cells in the inner ear.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 21456
- NCBI Entrez: 79143
- Ensembl: ENSG00000116682
- OMIM: 607365
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NDL9
- Aliases: 
     - DFNB59 
     - DKFZp686G1852 
     - KIAA1968 
     - Pej 

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Glu28Lys (missense mutation) [rs137852835]
- p.Gln422Ter (nonsense mutation) [rs104894116]
- p.Ile484Thr (missense mutation) [rs137852834]

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is no record of somatic SNVs/InDels associated with this gene in dbSNP.

## Related Diseases
Mutations in DFNB59 have been linked to autosomal recessive non-syndromic hearing loss.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for ARNSHL caused by mutations in DFNB59. Treatment options may include hearing aids, cochlear implants, or other assistive devices.

## Drug Response
There is no information available on drug response in relation to DFNB59 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Authors: Roux AF, Faugère V, Le Guédard S, Pallares-Ruiz N, Vielle A, Chambert S, Marlin S, Hamel C, Gilbert B, Malcolm S, Claustres M.
  - Title: Survey of the frequency of USH1 gene mutations in a cohort of Usher patients shows the importance of cadherin 23 and protocadherin 15 genes and establishes a detection rate of above 90%.
  - Journal: J Med Genet
  - Year: 2006
  - DOI: 10.1136/jmg.2005.036350

- Authors: Delmaghani S, del Castillo FJ, Michel V, Leibovici M, Aghaie A, Ron U, Van Laer L, Ben-Tal N, Van Camp G, Weil D, Langa F.
  - Title: Mutations in the gene encoding pejvakin, a newly identified protein of the afferent auditory pathway, cause DFNB59 auditory neuropathy.
  - Journal: Nat Genet
  - Year: 2006
  - DOI: 10.1038/ng1925

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**