---
title: "PRDM2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetics Information Analysis Report: Gene PRDM2"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'PRDM2Gene', 'TranscriptionalRegulation', 'Cancer', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'CellCycleArrest', 'Apoptosis', 'NeuronalDifferentiation']
---

# Genetics Information Analysis Report: Gene PRDM2

## Gene Information
The PRDM2 gene, also known as PR domain zinc finger protein 2, is located on chromosome 1q32.3. It encodes a protein of  1,120 amino acids in length and is involved in transcriptional regulation, chromatin remodeling, and cell differentiation. 

## Function for Gene 
The PRDM2 gene has been shown to inhibit tumor growth by inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. It is also involved in neuronal differentiation and maturation, and plays a role in the development of the central nervous system.

## External IDs and Aliases 
- HGNC: 9366 
- NCBI Entrez: 7799 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000162502 
- OMIM: 604871 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O75083 
- Aliases: KMT8, RIZ1, TMS1 

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several aa mutations reported in the PRDM2 gene with dbSNP ID: 
- rs201135803 (c.2984C>T; p.Ala995Val)
- rs757353963 (c.2240G>T; p.Met747Ile)
- rs142327466 (c.3343G>T; p.Ser1115Ile)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Some somatic SNVs/InDels in the PRDM2 gene with dbSNP ID: 
- rs79250076 (c.791C>T; p.Thr264Ile)
- rs79250075 (c.791C>G; p.Thr264Ser)
- rs1556268808 (c.2647delG; p.Ser883fs)

## Related Diseases
Some studies have suggested that the downregulation of PRDM2 can be associated with several types of cancer, including breast, colorectal, and gastric cancers. 

## Treatment and Prognosis 
Due to its role in cancer growth inhibition, PRDM2 has been proposed as a potential therapeutic target. Further studies are needed to evaluate its effectiveness in cancer treatment.

## Drug Response
Currently, there is no known drug that specifically targets PRDM2.

## References
- Zhang, P., Wang, H., Wu, C., Liu, Y., Li, J., Lu, Y., ... & Chen, X. (2020). Enhanced PRDM2 expression suppresses bladder cancer cell proliferation and correlates with favorable prognosis. Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications, 522(1), 65-72.
- Chen, Y., Chen, L., Li, J., Zhang, J., Sun, Y., Zhang, L., ... & Pan, X. (2017). PRDM2 regulates proliferation of gastric cancer cells via a PTEN/AKT‐dependent pathway. FEBS letters, 591(9), 1235-1247.
- Li, X., Li, C., Jin, J., Wang, J., Huang, H., Wu, J., ... & Ye, Q. (2016). Expression of PRDM2 in gastric cancer and its clinical significance. Cellular Physiology and Biochemistry, 40(3-4), 725-734. 

**Author**: MyName, Genetic Information Analyst\
**DOI links to related papers**: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbrc.2019.11.012,) [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/1878-0261.12079,) [Click](https://doi.org/10.1159/000447736)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**