---
title: "ALG2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: ALG2"
tags: ['ALG2', 'CongenitalDisordersOfGlycosylation', 'CDG', 'GlycosylationDefects', 'MissenseMutation', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'MultidisciplinaryApproach', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene: ALG2

### Function

ALG2 gene encodes alpha-1,3-mannosyltransferase enzyme which catalyzes the addition of mannose to the growing oligosaccharide chain during protein glycosylation.

### External IDs and Genomic Location

- Gene ID: 85360
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 9q22.33
- Aliases: MGC46125, DKFZp686P2095

### External Sites

- HGNC: HGNC:26916
- NCBI Entrez: 85360
- Ensembl: ENSG00000130280
- OMIM: 606941
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HB19

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are few mutations reported in ALG2 gene. One of the reported missense mutation is given below:

- c.251G>A (p.Arg84Gln), rs766001211

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

The somatic mutations associated with ALG2 gene are not yet reported.

### Related Disease

Mutations in ALG2 gene are associated with Congenital Disorders of Glycosylation (CDG). CDG is a heterogeneous group of autosomal-recessive disorders that are caused by glycosylation defects. ALG2-CDG is a rare type of CDG characterized by developmental delay and intellectual disability, seizures, hypotonia, and variable dysmorphic features.

### Treatment and Prognosis

There is no cure for ALG2-CDG. Treatment is symptomatic and based on the individual's clinical features. Multidisciplinary approach is required in the management of the patient. The prognosis depends on the severity of the disease and the response of the individual to the treatment.

### Drug Response

The drug response of ALG2 gene mutations is not yet reported.

### References

- Freeze, H. H. (2014). Congenital disorders of glycosylation: CDG-I, CDG-II, and beyond. Current molecular medicine, 14(4), 610-626.
- ALG2 gene. (n.d.). In Entrez Gene. National Center for Biotechnology Information. Retrieved April 10, 2021, from [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/85360)
- Pode-Shakked, N., & Shilo, V. (2017). Congenital disorders of glycosylation: an update on defects affecting the biosynthesis of dolichol-linked oligosaccharides. Journal of pediatric genetics, 6(2), 79-87.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**