---
title: "CD4"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene CD4"
tags: ['CD4', 'T-helpercells', 'immuneresponse', 'genetics', 'disease', 'treatment', 'drugresponse', 'somaticmutations']
---

## Gene CD4
- **Genetic position:** Chromosome 12: 54,949,752 - 54,957,951 bp
- **Function for gene:** CD4 is a glycoprotein expressed on the surface of T-helper cells, and is a co-receptor for MHC class II molecules on the surface of antigen-presenting cells (APCs). It plays a critical role in activating and regulating the immune response.
- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
    - HGNC ID: 1678
    - NCBI Entrez ID: 920
    - Ensembl ID: ENSG00000010610
    - OMIM ID: 186940
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P01730
    - Aliases: T4, LEU3
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** No common variants affect the AA sequence of CD4. However, there are numerous non-coding variants (SNPs and INDELs) in the vicinity of the gene. dbSNP ID: [[Click](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/projects/SNP/snp_ref.cgi?geneId=920](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/projects/SNP/snp_ref.cgi?geneId=920).)
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** There are several somatic mutations in CD4 associated with different cancer types. [COSMIC ID](https://cancer.sanger.ac.uk/cosmic/gene/analysis?ln=CD4)) for CD4.
- **Related diseases:** CD4 deficiency is linked to susceptibility to several infections, including HIV, measles, and candidiasis. In addition, CD4+ T cells are involved in the pathogenesis of several autoimmune diseases, including multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and rheumatoid arthritis.
- **Treatment and prognosis:** There is no specific treatment for CD4 deficiency, but prophylactic antibiotics and antiviral therapy can help prevent or treat infections. In terms of prognosis, the severity of immune deficiency varies widely depending on the underlying cause and other complicating factors.
- **Drug response:** Certain drugs can affect CD4+ T cell activation and function, including immunosuppressants, corticosteroids, and some biologic agents used to treat autoimmune diseases. 
- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
    - VandenBerg-Foels WS. Inherited CD4+ T-cell immunodeficiency disorders. Immunol Invest. 2018;47(4):325-343. doi: 10.1080/08820139.2018.1440973
    - Aloulou M, Carr EJ, Gador M, et al. Follicular regulatory T cells can be specific for the immunizing antigen and derive from naive T cells. Nat Commun. 2016;7:10579. doi: 10.1038/ncomms10579.
    - Kurien BT, Scofield RH. Autoimmunity and oxidatively modified autoantigens. Autoimmun Rev. 2008;7(8):567-573. doi: 10.1016/j.autrev.2008.02.007.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**