---
title: "TTLL11"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for TTLL11"
tags: ['TTLL11', 'Microtubules', 'GeneFunction', 'SNVs', 'InDels', 'GeneticDisease', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene Information for TTLL11

## Genetic Position and Pathology

- **Gene Name:**  Tubulin tyrosine ligase like 11 (TTLL11)
- **Chromosome:** 9
- **Locus:** q34.3
- **Pathology:** There is currently no known association between TTLL11 and any genetic disease.

## Function

TTLL11 is a member of the tubulin tyrosine ligase-like (TTLL) family of proteins. These proteins regulate the modification and stability of microtubules. TTLL11 specifically catalyzes the addition of tyrosine to the C-terminal end of alpha-tubulin.

## External IDs and Aliases

- **HGNC ID:** 16970
- **NCBI Entrez ID:** 80208
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000136810
- **OMIM ID:** -
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** Q6XZF2
- **Aliases:** KIAA1350, MGC148136, and RP11-72G23.2

## Mutations

There are currently no known disease-causing mutations in TTLL11. However, there are some single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and insertions/deletions (InDels) reported in the dbSNP database. 

- **SNVs:** rs17855313, rs17855312, rs17161738, rs17855311, rs17161743, rs17855314
- **InDels:** -

## Related Disease

There is currently no known association between TTLL11 and any genetic disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis

As TTLL11 is not associated with any genetic disease, there are no specific treatments or prognoses related to this gene.

## Drug Response

As TTLL11 is not associated with any genetic disease, there are no specific drug responses related to this gene.

## Related Papers

- Subject: TTLL11 regulates microtubule bending 
  - Author: Sirajuddin, M., Rice, L.M.
  - DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1217457109
  - Link: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3574960/)
- Subject: Loss of TTLL11 expression in tumor cells 
  - Author: Imai, H., Kiyozuka, Y., et al.
  - DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2014.2699
  - Link: [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25296911/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**