---
title: "PDGFRL"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information about Gene PDGFRL"
tags: ['PDGFRL', 'TransmembraneReceptor', 'Cancer', 'Downregulation', 'Prognosis', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Research']
---

# Genetic Information about Gene PDGFRL

### Gene Information
- **Function:** The gene PDGFRL (platelet-derived growth factor receptor-like) encodes for a transmembrane receptor protein that belongs to the PDGF/VEGF receptor family.
- **External IDs and Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 8830
    - NCBI Entrez: 100132449
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000180625
    - OMIM: 608785
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HBU9
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 8p22-p21.3

### Mutations
- **AA Mutation List:** There are currently no reported missense mutations in the PDGFRL gene.
- **Mutation Type:** 
  - Currently, there are no pathogenic mutations reported in the PDGFRL gene.
  - There are few synonymous variants, and the effect of these variants on the function of the PDGFRL protein is not yet known.
  - However, PDGFRL was found to be associated with various types of cancers. The mechanism of how this gene contributes to cancer development is not yet fully understood.

### Related Diseases
- There is a proposed association of PDGFRL gene expression with a variety of types of cancer. PDGFRL has been shown to be downregulated in colorectal cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, and osteosarcoma. 

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there are no specific treatments available targeting the PDGFRL gene for cancer therapy.
- The prognosis for patients with PDGFRL-associated cancers is not yet known as further research is required.

### Drug Response
- There are no specific drugs related to PDGFRL gene expression for cancer therapy.

### Related Papers
-  Zeng, Y., Zhu, X., Zhang, Y. et al. Down-regulation of PDGFRL expression associates with poor prognosis in colorectal cancer. BMC Cancer 16, 307 (2016). [doi: 10.1186/s12885-016-2331-3]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12885-016-2331-3))
- Liu, L., Wu, J., Ying, Z. et al. MicroRNA-378 regulates epithelial–mesenchymal transition and metastasis of osteosarcoma by targeting stem-like cells. Sci Rep 6, 35996 (2016). [doi: 10.1038/srep35996]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/srep35996))
- Li, M., Yang, J., Wang, C. et al. TGF-β and its target gene, Nedd9, are repressed by Pax3 in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma. Oncogene 33, 647–656 (2014). [doi: 10.1038/onc.2012.604]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/onc.2012.604))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**