---
title: "COL4A1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene COL4A1"
tags: ['COL4A1', 'GeneticInformation', 'BasementMembranes', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about gene COL4A1

## Genetic position, pathology, and function 

**Genetic position:** COL4A1 is a gene located on the chromosome 13q34 and consists of 52 exons. 

**Pathology:** COL4A1 is associated with various diseases like angiopathy, hematuria, and porencephaly. 

**Function for gene:** COL4A1 encodes one of the alpha chains of type IV collagen, which is a major component of basement membranes. 

## Gene and genomic location, Aliases 

**Gene:** COL4A1

**Aliases:** 
- BSVD 
- SRFAD 
- collagen, type IV, alpha 1 

**Genomic location:**
- Chromosome: 13 
- Start: 110,023,370 bp
- End: 110,108,591 bp

**External IDs:**
- HGNC ID: HGNC:2195
- NCBI Entrez ID: 1282
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000154263
- OMIM ID: 120130
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P02462

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

The following are some of the AA mutations for gene COL4A1, along with their mutation types and corresponding dbSNP IDs.

| AA mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Gly498Arg | Missense | rs267606821 |
| Gly1043Asp | Missense | rs121917831 |
| Arg2162Cys | Missense | rs121917832 |
| Arg162Ser | Missense | rs757234223 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

The following are some of the somatic SNVs/InDels for gene COL4A1, along with their corresponding dbSNP IDs.

| SNV/InDel | dbSNP ID |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| G>A | rs121917834 |
| T>C | rs121917836 |
| G>C | rs267606822 |
| C>T | rs121917835 |

## Related disease

Mutations in the COL4A1 gene have been associated with several diseases including:
- Porencephaly 
- Hematuria 
- Angiopathy 
- Anterior segment dysgenesis 
- Brain small vessel disease 
- Retinal artery tortuosity 
- Stroke 
- Moyamoya disease

## Treatment and prognosis

Currently, there is no curative treatment for diseases caused by mutations in COL4A1. Treatment is usually aimed at managing the symptoms and complications associated with these diseases. The prognosis depends on the specific disease and the severity of symptoms.

## Drug response

There is currently no information available on drug response specifically related to COL4A1 mutations.

## Related papers

- **Author:** Plaisier E, Gribouval O, Alamowitch S, et al.
  - **Title:** COL4A1 mutations and hereditary angiopathy, nephropathy, aneurysms, and muscle cramps (HANAC).
  - **Journal:** Neurology. 2007;68(22):1663. 
  - **DOI:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1212/01.wnl.0000260064.48935.9f)

- **Author:** Lanfranconi S, Markus HS.
  - **Title:** COL4A1 mutations as a monogenic cause of cerebral small vessel disease: a systematic review.
  - **Journal:** Stroke. 2010;41(8):e513-e518. 
  - **DOI:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1161/strokeaha.110.581058)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**