---
title: "SPAG17"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene SPAG17"
tags: ['SPAG17', 'maleinfertility', 'spermatogenesis', 'missensemutations', 'IVF', 'ICSI', 'geneticdisorders', 'reproductivetechnologies']
---

## Gene SPAG17

The SPAG17 gene, also known as sperm-associated antigen 17, is located on chromosome 22q13.33. This gene codes for a protein called sperm-associated antigen 17, which is mainly expressed in testis and plays a role in sperm function.

### Function

The protein encoded by SPAG17 is involved in the regulation of microtubule dynamics during spermatogenesis, especially in the formation of the axoneme, the tail-like structure of the sperm that enables motility. Mutations in SPAG17 have been associated with male infertility.

### External IDs and Aliases

- Gene ID: 11089
- HGNC ID: 11270
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000128310
- OMIM ID: 609396
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: O75358

Aliases: CT94, MGC138362, MGC138887, MGC138888, NY-CO-16

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are several missense mutations that have been reported for SPAG17. Some examples are:

- p.Gln1708Arg (rs148822352)
- p.Ala3460Ser (rs149392140)
- p.Arg408His (rs150126828)
- p.Pro2736Leu (rs201438431)
- p.Glu3589Lys (rs137853322)

Most of these mutations have been reported as rare variants and their functional significance is still unknown.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no somatic mutations reported for SPAG17 in the COSMIC database.

### Related Disease

Mutations in SPAG17 have been associated with male infertility. Specifically, a homozygous frameshift mutation in SPAG17 has been reported in a patient with asthenoteratozoospermia, a condition characterized by reduced sperm motility and abnormal sperm morphology.

### Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no specific treatment for male infertility caused by SPAG17 mutations. However, assisted reproductive technologies such as in vitro fertilization (IVF) and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) may be helpful for some couples.

### Drug Response

There is no known drug that specifically targets SPAG17.

### Related Papers

- "A homozygous frameshift mutation in SPAG17 is associated with male infertility in human beings." ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-05516-4))
- "Mutations in DNAH1, which encodes an inner arm heavy chain dynein, lead to male infertility from multiple morphological abnormalities of the sperm flagella." ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.3047))
- "Loss-of-Function Mutations in QRICH2 Cause Male Infertility with Multiple Morphological Abnormalities of the Sperm Flagella." ([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2013.11.001))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**