---
title: "ACVR2A"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene ACVR2A"
tags: ['ACVR2A', 'ActivinReceptor', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'TargetedTherapy', 'DrugResponse', 'PancreaticCancer', 'ColorectalCancer']
---

# Gene ACVR2A

## Genetic Position and Function

- **Genetic Position:** ACVR2A is located on the human chromosome 2q22-q33.
- **Function:** ACVR2A gene encodes for activin receptor type-2A protein, a receptor for activin, which plays a vital role in various cellular processes such as cell differentiation, apoptosis, and proliferation. It is known to be involved in the regulation of follicle-stimulating hormone release.

## External IDs and Aliases

- **External IDs:** Gene ID: 93; HGNC ID: 164; Ensembl ID: ENSG00000110090; NCBI Entrez ID: 92; OMIM ID: 102576
- **Aliases:** ActR-2A, ACTRIIA, MGC34440.


## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

|Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|--------|------------|--------|
|L94P|Missense|rs121913529|
|G328E|Missense|rs121913528|
|R206H|Missense|rs121913531|
|G465V|Missense|rs11540652|


## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

|Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|--------|------------|--------|
|C509S|Missense|rs267607156|
|G27fs*29|Frameshift|rs750170515|
|E335K|Missense|rs555162387|


## Related Disease

The following diseases are associated with ACVR2A gene:

- Colorectal cancer
- Bladder cancer
- Esophageal cancer
- Prostate cancer
- Pancreatic cancer
- Breast cancer
- Hepatocellular carcinoma

## Treatment and Prognosis

As of now, no specific treatment or prognosis is available for ACVR2A related diseases. However, ongoing research is exploring the potential use of targeted therapies to block the activin pathway in specific cancer types.

## Drug Response

There is limited information available on the drug response related to ACVR2A gene and its related diseases.

## Related Papers

- **Subject:** ACVR2A germline mutation is associated with the development of synchronous CRC and PLL.
- **Author:** LIU Tongjun, et al.
- **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.3760/cma.j.cn112094-20190923-00630)

- **Subject:** ACVR2A depletion by miR-129-5p inactivates the SMAD signaling and enhances the gemcitabine chemotherapy efficiency in pancreatic cancer cells.
- **Author:** ZHU Zhongwu, et al.
- **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.12.075)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**