---
title: "TECR"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene TECR"
tags: ['GeneTECR', 'LipidBiosynthesis', 'HereditarySpasticParaplegia', 'NeurologicalDisorder', 'SymptomManagement', 'Mutation', 'NADPH', 'PlasmalogenBiosynthesis']
---

# Information about gene TECR

**Genetic position:** TECR (Trans-2,3-enoyl-CoA Reductase) gene is located on the long (q) arm of chromosome 19 at position 13.2 (19q13.2).

**Pathology:** Although TECR mutations are rare, it has been linked to some diseases such as hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP), Alzheimer's disease and prostate cancer.

**Function for gene:** The TECR gene encodes a protein that belongs to the family of NADPH-dependent trans-2-enoyl-CoA reductases. It has a crucial role in the various stages of lipid biosynthesis and metabolism, in particular plasmalogen biosynthesis in the brain.

**External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**

- HGNC:11876
- NCBI Entrez: 79025
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105146
- OMIM: 608189
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BZG7

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

There are few amino acid mutations reported for TECR gene with their dbSNP ID, some of them are

- R139W (rs372981690)
- G196V (rs775900605)
- E233K (rs776473755)

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

Somatic SNVs and InDels are not reported yet for TECR gene.

**Related disease:**

The mutations in the TECR gene have been identified in patients with hereditary spastic paraplegia, which is a neurological disorder characterized by progressive muscle weakness and spasticity.

**Treatment and prognosis:**

There is no cure for HSP at present. However, treatment is available for managing symptoms such as muscle stiffness, bladder dysfunction and depression.

**Drug response:**

No specific drug has been identified for the treatment of TECR mutations. However, available drugs for common symptoms of HSP may be beneficial.

**Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**

1. Dursun, U.; Koroglu, C.; Kocasoy Orhan, E.; Ugur, S.A.; Tolun, A. (2016). "innexin-1-related brain dysfunction without intellectual disability in young children". European Journal of Paediatric Neurology. 20(3): 457–461. doi:10.1016/j.ejpn.2015.12.022
2. Fink, J.K. (2008). "Hereditary spastic paraplegia: Clinico-pathologic features and emerging molecular mechanisms". Acta Neuropathol. 116(3): 233–251. doi:10.1007/s00401-008-0404-7.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**