---
title: "ECM2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene ECM2"
tags: ['ECM2', 'ExtracellularMatrix', 'Angiogenesis', 'SNPs', 'GenomeWideAssociationStudy', 'EndothelialCells', 'PlasmaPhospholipidFattyAcids', 'CHARGEConsortium']
---

## Gene ECM2

**Genetic Position**: The gene ECM2 is located on chromosome 1 at position 1p13.3.

**Pathology**: No disease or pathology is directly associated with the ECM2 gene.

**Function**: The ECM2 gene encodes for a protein that is involved in extracellular matrix formation. It is also believed to play a role in the angiogenic response.

**External IDs**: 

- HGNC: 25204
- NCBI Entrez: 84712
- Ensembl: ENSG00000162574
- OMIM: 615553
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NQW8

**Aliases**: None

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**: There are several variants associated with the ECM2 gene. According to dbSNP, some of the variants include rs190465979, rs6752026, rs11678987, rs1800456, and rs7558726. These variants are mostly single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) without any known deleterious effects.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: There is no known association of the ECM2 gene with somatic mutations.

**Related disease**: There are no known diseases associated with the ECM2 gene.

**Treatment and prognosis**: Since there are no known diseases directly linked to the ECM2 gene, there is no specific treatment or prognosis associated with it.

**Drug response**: There is no known drug response related to the ECM2 gene.

**Related papers**:

- Subject: ECM2: a novel gene in the angiogenic response of endothelial cells.
Author: Jensen LD, et al.
DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-8-353
- Subject: Genome-wide association study identifies novel loci associated with concentrations of four plasma phospholipid fatty acids in the de novo lipogenesis pathway: results from the Cohorts for Heart and Aging Research in Genomic Epidemiology (CHARGE) consortium
Author: Wu JH, et al.
DOI: 10.3945/ajcn.111.028357

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**