---
title: "BCOR"
date: 2023-04-12 00:00:00
summary: "# Information about Gene BCOR"
tags: ['Information about Gene BCOR', '# Genetic position', '# Pathology', '# Function', '# External IDs and Aliases', '# AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID', '# Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID', '# Related disease', '# Treatment and prognosis', '# Drug response', '# Related papers']
---

# Information about Gene BCOR

## Genetic position
BCOR gene is located on the X chromosome at position Xp11.4.

## Pathology
Mutations in the BCOR gene have been associated with various diseases, including syndromic or non-syndromic forms of oculofaciocardiodental (OFCD) syndrome, Lenz microphthalmia syndrome, and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In OFCD syndrome, females are mostly affected due to the X-linked dominant inheritance pattern of BCOR mutations.

## Function
The BCOR protein plays a role in gene regulation and transcriptional repression through its interaction with other proteins, such as Polycomb group proteins.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 1048
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 54735
- Ensembl Gene: ENSG00000164885
- OMIM ID: 300485
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q6W2J9
- Aliases: OFCD1, FLJ12790, hJHDM1D

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.254G>A (p.Trp85Ter) - nonsense mutation (rs398122678)
- c.2458C>T (p.Arg820Ter) - nonsense mutation (rs146588009)
- c.1292C>T (p.Arg431Ter) - nonsense mutation (rs398122680)
- c.479C>G (p.Thr160Ser) - missense mutation (rs398122682)
- c.1742G>T (p.Asp581Tyr) - missense mutation (rs398122683)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.1364A>G (p.Thr455Ala) - missense mutation (rs587782621)
- c.1970C>T (p.Arg657Ter) - nonsense mutation (rs201438117)
- c.1269delT (p.Leu424AlafsTer7) - frameshift mutation (rs761307071)

## Related disease
- Oculofaciocardiodental (OFCD) syndrome
- Lenz microphthalmia syndrome
- Acute myeloid leukemia (AML)

## Treatment and prognosis
Treatment and prognosis depend on the specific disease associated with BCOR mutations. OFCD syndrome and Lenz microphthalmia syndrome are managed with supportive care and corrective surgeries, while AML is treated with chemotherapy and/or bone marrow transplant.

## Drug response
No specific drug response has been reported yet for BCOR-associated diseases.

## Related papers
- Author: Ng, David et al.
  - Title: Exome sequencing identifies the cause of a mendelian disorder
    - DOI: 10.7326/P15-0008
- Author: Kleefstra, Tjitske et al.
  - Title: Phenotypic spectrum of X-linked mental retardation associated with mutations in the <i>BCOR</i> gene
  - DOI: 10.1002/humu.22179