---
title: "MYOM1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: MYOM1"
tags: ['MYOM1', 'SkeletalMuscleDisorders', 'MyofibrillarMyopathy', 'Cardiomyopathy', 'Mband', 'GeneticMutation', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment']
---

## Gene: MYOM1

### Genetic Position:
The MYOM1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 18 (18q12.1).

### Pathology:
Mutations in the MYOM1 gene have been linked to various skeletal muscle disorders such as Myofibrillar myopathy, Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and Dilated cardiomyopathy. 

### Function:
The MYOM1 gene encodes myomesin-1, a protein that is mainly expressed in striated muscle. Myomesin-1 plays an essential role in the assembly and stabilization of the M-band in sarcomeres.

### External IDs: 
- HGNC: 7605
- NCBI Entrez: 4645
- Ensembl: ENSG00000147416
- OMIM: 160746
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O14979

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- c.998C>T (p.Arg333Trp) - Pathogenic - dbSNP ID: rs113994110
- c.2458+2T>A - Pathogenic - dbSNP ID: rs786202049

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for MYOM1.

### Related Disease:
- Myofibrillar myopathy
- Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
- Dilated cardiomyopathy

### Treatment and Prognosis:
There is currently no cure for genetic disorders caused by mutations in the MYOM1 gene. Treatment focuses on managing symptoms and preventing complications. 
The prognosis for individuals with MYOM1-related disorders varies, depending on the severity and progression of symptoms.

### Drug Response:
There is currently no specific drug available for the treatment of MYOM1-related disorders.

### Related Papers:
- Author: Strasser, P.
  - "Mutations in the myosin-binding protein C3 gene (MYBPC3) in familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy."
  - DOI: 10.1038/ng0595-79
  
- Author: Selcen, D.
  - "Mutation in myomesin: nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia and distal muscle weakness."
  - DOI: 10.1002/ana.20330

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**