---
title: "CACNA1C"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene CACNA1C"
tags: ['GeneCACNA1C', 'LTypeCalciumChannel', 'PhysiologicalProcesses', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'DrugResponse', 'BipolarDisorder', 'Schizophrenia', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder']
---

# Information on Gene CACNA1C

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

- CACNA1C is a gene located on chromosome 12, specifically on the long (q) arm at position 13.33.

- This gene encodes the alpha-1C subunit of the voltage-dependent L-type calcium channel, which is essential for the influx of calcium ions into cells and plays a critical role in various physiological processes such as muscle contraction, neurotransmitter release, gene expression, and calcium-dependent second messenger systems.

- In terms of pathology, mutations in this gene have been implicated in various physiological and neurological disorders such as cardiovascular diseases, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder, schizophrenia, and autism spectrum disorder.

## Function for Gene

- Voltage-dependent L-type calcium channel activity.
- Intracellular calcium ion transport.
- Release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosolic vesicle.

## External IDs for Gene

- HGNC ID: 1394
- Entrez Gene ID: 775
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000170558
- OMIM ID: 114205
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q13936

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- p.Ala39Thr (rs141177107)
- p.Ile416Val (rs370547669)
- p.Ser539Leu (rs148185286)
- p.Leu858Val (rs200704762)
- p.Arg1106Leu (rs149974098)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- c.6816G>A (rs34040296)
- c.3245G>A (rs587779063)
- c.4624_4631del (rs869320987)

## Related Disease

- Bipolar Disorder (BD)
- Major Depressive Disorder (MDD)
- Schizophrenia (SCZ)
- Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)
- Cardiovascular Diseases

## Treatment and Prognosis

- The treatment and prognosis depend on the specific disorder and mutation associated with the gene.

## Drug Response

- CACNA1C gene is targeted by several drugs such as verapamil, diltiazem, nimodipine, and felodipine.

## Related Papers

- **Subject:** Genetics
- **Author Name:** Andreas Reif
- **DOI Links to Papers:**
  - [The German multi‐centre study on pharmacogenetics of controlled treatment studies—AGATE][1]
  - [Genetic variant rs1006737 in the miR-708 gene polymorphism is associated with 5-year survival in small cell lung cancer][2]

[1]: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1399-0004.2011.01637.x)
[2]: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/cam4.2829)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**