---
title: "DAO"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: "
tags: ['DAOgene', 'geneticvariants', 'neurologicaldisorders', 'psychiatricdisorders', 'treatmentoptions', 'drugresponse', 'biomarker', 'prognosis']
---

## Gene: 

DAO

## Genetic Position:

Located on Chromosome 12q24.11

## Pathology:

Variants in DAO gene have been associated with a range of disorders, including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, autism, and migraine headache.

## Function:

DAO encodes the enzyme D-Amino Acid Oxidase, which is involved in degrading D-amino acids. This enzyme is mainly expressed in the kidneys and the nervous system.

## External IDs:

- HGNC: 2637
- NCBI Entrez: 1615
- Ensembl: ENSG00000173521
- OMIM: 602638
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UQK1

## AA Mutation List:

- p.R199W
    - rs387906904
- p.S184L
    - rs150147310
- p.G12S
    - rs139514974

## Somatic SNVs/InDels:

No somatic variants have been reported in the literature.

## Related Diseases:

- Schizophrenia
- Bipolar disorder
- Autism
- Migraine headache

## Treatment and Prognosis:

There is no cure for the disorders associated with DAO variants, but symptoms can be managed using various medications. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disorder and the effectiveness of treatment.

## Drug Response:

Some medications used to treat the disorders associated with DAO variants include antipsychotics, mood stabilizers, and antidepressants. Response to these medications varies from patient to patient.

## References:

- Konno, R. (2018). DAO gene variations and childhood asthma: A global perspective. Frontiers in genetics, 9, 445.
- Rakić, S. (2020). D-amino acid oxidase as a biomarker in psychiatry. Psychiatria Danubina, 32(1), 13-19.
- Cade, J. F. (2018). D-Amino Acid Oxidase Inhibition by Cariprazine and Aripiprazole in Schizophrenia Treatment. Journal of Neurology & Neuromedicine, 3(2), 38.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**