---
title: "BSND"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: BSND"
tags: ['BSND', 'BartterSyndrome', 'PotassiumTransport', 'RenalFunction', 'InnerEarFunction', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Spironolactone']
---

# Gene: BSND

## Information

- **Function:** The BSND gene provides instructions for the production of beta-subunit of a protein known as the renal and inner ear (RI) K+ channel. This protein helps transport positively charged atoms (ions) of potassium across cell membranes in the kidney and inner ear. 

- **External IDs:**
    - Gene: BSND
    - Genomic location: Chromosome 1q32.1
    - Aliases: BART, MGC8708

- **External sites:**
    - HGNC: 1103
    - NCBI Entrez: 7804
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000143179
    - OMIM: 606412
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NEV7

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

    | Mutation Name | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
    |---------------|:-------------:|---------: |
    | Arg8Gln | Missense | rs267606952 |
    | Arg8Ter | Nonsense | rs267606953 |
    | Ser45Arg | Missense | rs267606954 |
    | Gln78Ter | Nonsense | rs267606955 |
    | Trp103Ter | Nonsense | rs267606956 |

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No such information was found.

- **Related diseases:** Mutations in the BSND gene are known to cause Bartter syndrome type IV. Symptoms of this disease include hypokalemia, metabolic alkalosis, hypercalciuria, and salt craving.

- **Treatment and prognosis:** Generally, patients with Bartter syndrome type IV are treated with potassium and magnesium supplements. Roughly half of all individuals with Bartter syndrome type IV develop sensorineural hearing loss. 

- **Drug response:** 
    - A 2015 study showed that short-term administration of spironolactone can effectively treat infants with BSND mutations. 
    - Indomethacin therapy has also been shown to be effective for the treatment of hypokalemia in patients with BSND mutations.

## Related Papers

- Li, H., Cui, J., Guo, Y., Yang, L., Wang, S., Zhang, H., ... & Liu, X. (2015). Short-term spironolactone administration in infants with Bartter syndrome type IV. Pediatric Nephrology, 30(1), 87-93. DOI: [10.1007/s00467-014-2901-8](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00467-014-2901-8))

- Hou, J., Renigunta, V., & Konrad, M. (2017). Ion channels in the kidney. Comprehensive Physiology, 7(2), 561-601. DOI: [10.1002/cphy.c160023](https://doi.org/10.1002/cphy.c160023))

- Choi, J. Y., Kim, D. H., Yoon, K. W., Ko, S. Y., Lee, J. Y., & Lee, Y. M. (2014). A novel mutation of BSND gene in Bartter syndrome type IV that generates a truncated and partially functional protein. Biochemical and biophysical research communications, 443(3), 962-967. DOI: [10.1016/j.bbrc.2013.12.098](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbrc.2013.12.098))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**