---
title: "THRAP3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information "
tags: ['THRAP3', 'TranscriptionalCoactivator', 'GeneExpression', 'ChronicLymphocyticLeukemia', 'GeneticInformation', 'GenomicLocation', 'Aliases', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene Information 

**Gene Symbol:** THRAP3 

**Gene Name:** Thyroid Hormone Receptor Associated Protein 3 

## Gene Function

THRAP3 is a transcriptional coactivator that interacts with nuclear receptors. It is involved in the regulation of gene expression during various biological processes such as cell proliferation, differentiation, and metabolism. 

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases

**Genomic Location:** Chromosome 1q31.2 

**Aliases:**
- thyroid hormone receptor-associated protein 3 
- TR-associated protein 3 

**External IDs:**
- HGNC: 17732 
- NCBI Entrez: 10190 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000160868 
- OMIM: 605939 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9P2D1 

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

No known pathogenic variants have been reported in the THRAP3 gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

No somatic SNVs or InDels with dbSNP ID have been reported in the THRAP3 gene.

## Related Disease

At present, there are no known diseases directly associated with THRAP3 mutations. However, some studies have associated the upregulation of the gene with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Since there are no known diseases directly associated with mutations in THRAP3, any treatment and prognosis would depend on the disease or condition being treated.

## Drug Response

There is no reported information that directly relates to the drug responses of THRAP3. 

## Related Papers

- Subject: THRAP3 
- Author: Kim, J. 
- DOI: 10.1186/s12885-017-3324-y 

- Subject: THRAP3 and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. 
- Author: Dragowska, A. 
- DOI: 10.1186/s12935-016-0329-2 

- Subject: Biological Functions and Role of THRAP3 
- Author: Chen, X., Yan, G., & Cao, S. 
- DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2018.01.025

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**