---
title: "PLD2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene PLD2"
tags: ['Summary', 'of', 'PLD2', 'gene', 'informati']
---

# Information about gene PLD2

## Genomic location and aliases

**Gene**: PLD2

**Genomic location**: Chromosome 17q25.3

**Aliases**: CDP-diacylglycerol--inositol 3-phosphatidyltransferase 2, Phospholipase D2, PLD2_HUMAN


## Function for gene

The PLD2 gene encodes for the Phospholipase D2 protein which is responsible for the conversion of phosphatidylcholine to choline and phosphatidic acid. The protein plays a role in membrane trafficking, cytoskeletal remodeling, and receptor-mediated endocytosis.


## External IDs

- HGNC: 9067
- NCBI Entrez: 5338
- Ensembl: ENSG00000141646
- OMIM: 602743
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O14939


## Mutation Information

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

*Currently, there are no known AA mutations for the PLD2 gene in the dbSNP database.*

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

*Currently, there are no known somatic SNVs/InDels for the PLD2 gene in the dbSNP database.*


## Related Diseases

- Neoplasms
- Ovarian cancer


## Treatment and Prognosis

*Currently, there are no specific treatments established for mutations in the PLD2 gene. Treatment options for related diseases depend on the type and stage of the cancer.*


## Drug Response

*Currently, there are no established drug responses for mutations in the PLD2 gene.*


## Related papers

- Author: Sato N, et al.
  - Title: Phospholipase D2 and autophagy in immortalized ovarian surface epithelial cells.
  - DOI: 10.3892/or.2013.2897
- Author: Bruntz RC, et al.
  - Title: Development of phospholipase D inhibitors for cancer and other diseases.
  - DOI:  10.1016/j.bmc.2017.06.047
- Author: Ciampa MG, et al.
  - Title: Phospholipase D2 and its tumor suppressive role in skin.
  - DOI: 10.3390/ijms18112206


1. #PLD2gene
2. #PhospholipaseD2
3. #MembraneTrafficking
4. #OvarianCancer
5. #SomaticMutations
6. #DrugResponse
7. #TumorSuppressor
8. #Autophagy**
**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**