---
title: "NTF3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene NTF3"
tags: ['GeneNTF3', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'Neurotrophin3', 'Mutation', 'SomaticSNVs', 'CIPA', 'HSANV', 'TreatmentOptions']
---

# Information about Gene NTF3

## Genetic Position

Gene NTF3 is located on chromosome 12 at position 12p13.31.

## Pathology

Mutations in gene NTF3 have been associated with various neurological disorders such as hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type V (HSAN-V) and Congenital Insensitivity to Pain with Anhidrosis (CIPA).

## Function

Gene NTF3 encodes for the neurotrophin-3 protein which plays a crucial role in neuronal survival, differentiation, and growth during development. It promotes the development and survival of certain sensory and sympathetic neurons.

## External IDs and Aliases 

- HGNC:7593
- NCBI Entrez:4908
- Ensembl:ENSG00000111670
- OMIM:162660
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P20783

Aliases: 
- NGF2
- HDNF
- NTN2

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

There are various AA (amino acid) mutations linked to gene NTF3:

| AA mutation | Mutation type | dbSNP ID |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Ala97Thr | Missense | rs104899623 |
| Gly120Arg | Missense | rs104899624 |
| Cys48Tyr | Missense | rs104899625 |
| Gly98Ser | Missense | rs104899627 |
| His103Tyr | Missense | rs104899628 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are several somatic SNVs/InDels with dB-SNP ID that affect gene NTF3. Some of the examples are:

| SNV/InDel | dB-SNP ID |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| C>T | rs1997627 |
| G>A | rs148572252 |
| G>T | rs374747135 |
| G>C | rs776258054 |

## Related Disease

The mutation in gene NTF3 has been associated with neurological disorders such as:

- Congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis (CIPA)
- Hereditary Sensory and Autonomic Neuropathy type V (HSAN-V)

## Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no specific cure for the neurological disorder associated with gene NTF3 mutation. However, treatment is given based on the symptoms. Genetic counseling is recommended for affected individuals and their family members.

## Drug response 

Currently, there is no specific drug available for the neurological disorder associated with gene NTF3 mutation. However, research is ongoing for the development of targeted therapies.

## References

- Houlden H., et al. (2001) Hereditary sensory neuropathy type V: clinical and genetic characterization of a new kindred. Neurology. 56: 328-335. [PMID:11208842]
- Indo Y. (2001) Nerve growth factor, interoception, and sympathetic neuron: lesson from congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis. Auton Neurosci. 90: 21-27. [PMID: 11718782]
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P20783. [[Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/P20783])

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**