---
title: "CDY2A"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene CDY2A Information"
tags: ['CDY2A', 'Ychromosome', 'Spermatogenesis', 'GeneticInformation', 'NoAssociatedDiseases', 'NoKnownTreatments', 'NoDrugResponse', 'RegionalMapping']
---

## Gene CDY2A Information

- **Genetic position:** The gene CDY2A is located on the long arm of the Y chromosome at position Yq11.223.

- **Pathology:** The CDY2A gene is not currently associated with any known pathological conditions.

- **Function for gene:** The function of the CDY2A gene is not well understood, but it is thought to play a role in spermatogenesis.

- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**

  - HGNC: 16969
  - NCBI Entrez: 9086
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000234990
  - OMIM: 400020
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UH92

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** There are several known mutations in the CDY2A gene, but they have not been extensively studied. A list of known mutations along with their mutation type is not available.

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** Somatic mutations in the CDY2A gene have not been reported.

- **Related disease:** The CDY2A gene is not currently associated with any known diseases.

- **Treatment and prognosis:** Since the CDY2A gene is not associated with any known diseases, there are no specific treatments or prognoses related to its function.

- **Drug response:** There is no information available regarding the drug response associated with the CDY2A gene.

- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
  
  - Nistér M, Anagrius C, Broberg K, Drettner B, Emmanuelsson M, Gisberth K, Gustavson KH, Haapanen A, Holmberg E, Lovaas KE, et al. (February 1992). "Regional mapping of the human Y chromosome for STSs with special reference to a new STS, YSC-A, in the AZFb critical region". Cytogenetics and Cell Genetics. 59 (3–4): 185–91. doi:10.1159/000133317. PMID 1532227.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**