---
title: "MYPN"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: MYPN"
tags: ['MYPN', 'Cardiomyopathy', 'Sarcomere', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function']
---

# Gene: MYPN

### Genetic Position
The MYPN gene is located in the chromosomal region 10q21.3 and spans 107.31 kb. 

### Pathology
Mutations in the MYPN gene are associated with dilated and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (DCM and HCM).

### Function
The MYPN gene encodes the protein myopalladin, an essential component of the sarcomere in striated muscles. Myopalladin interacts with other sarcomeric proteins such as titin and myosin binding protein C, contributing to the structural and functional integrity of the heart.


### External IDs, Location, and Aliases
- HGNC:7455
- NCBI Entrez:89971
- Ensembl:ENSG00000107864
- OMIM:608517
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96GC9
- Genomic Location: chr10:66021563-66128631 
- Aliases: MYPN, Palladin, FLJ21166, KIAA1207 


### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Glu208dup, duplication - rs1556483814
- p.Gly715Arg, missense variant - rs757423400
- p.Leu58Pro, missense variant - rs201011642

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
The MYPN gene has no significant somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID.

### Related Disease
Mutations in the MYPN gene are associated with dilated and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (DCM and HCM).

### Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for DCM and HCM includes medication, surgical interventions, and implantable devices. Prognosis varies based on the severity of the disease and individual patient factors.

### Drug Response
There is no specific drug response known for MYPN mutations.

### Related Papers
- Subject: MYPN mutations in dilated and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy patients
- Author: Niu Z et al. 
- DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41436-020-01051-8)
 
- Subject: Myopalladin function in sarcomere organization and cardiomyopathy 
- Author: Qiang Wang et al.
- DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.09.055)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**