---
title: "GPC6"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['GPC6', 'WntSignaling', 'ShortStature', 'BDA1Syndrome', 'Mutation', 'SymptomManagement', 'GeneticInformation', 'Glypican']
---

## Gene Information

Gene: GPC6

### Function
- GPC6 encodes a protein, glypican-6, which is a member of the glypican family that is crucial for bone development, cell growth, and differentiation. 
- It acts as a co-receptor for Wnt signaling pathway, which is important for cell proliferation, migration, and differentiation.

### External IDs and Genomic Location

- HGNC ID: 4516
- NCBI Entrez ID: 10017
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000115610
- Genomic Location: Chromosome X: 7384500-7706797
- Aliases: BM-011, K-glypican

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- └ Mutation types: SNP
- └ dbSNP ID: rs747999153
- └ Protein change: p.R176H

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- No somatic mutation has been reported yet.

## Related Disease

- GPC6 mutations are associated with short stature.
- BDA1 syndrome, which is a skeletal disorder that affects the development of bones and leads to short stature, has been linked to mutations in the GPC6 gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- Treatment is symptom management-based and tailored to the individual depending on the extent of the symptoms.
- Prognosis is dependent on the severity of the disorder and the health of the affected individual.

## Drug Response

- No known drug response has been reported yet.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Identification of mutations in GPC6 gene causing BDA1 syndrome
- Author: Niu et al.
- DOI: 10.1186/s12881-020-01083-4

- Subject: Evaluation of mutations in GPC6 gene in short stature patients
- Author: El-Bassyouni et al.
- DOI: 10.1007/s00431-018-3206-2

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**