---
title: "ATP13A4"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene ATP13A4"
tags: ['ATP13A4', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorders', 'KuforRakebSyndrome', 'LysosomalAcidification', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'TreatmentSupportive', 'MetalTasteInAutophagy']
---

# Information about Gene ATP13A4
## Genetic Position
Gene: ATP13A4

Chromosome Location: 3q29

## Pathology and Function
ATP13A4 is a member of the P5 subfamily of P-type ATPases that has mainly been studied for its potential role in lysosomal pH regulation. Recently, mutations in ATP13A4 have been linked to neurodegenerative disorders such as Kufor-Rakeb syndrome, which is an autosomal recessive form of juvenile Parkinson's disease.

## Gene Information
### Function
ATP13A4 is involved in lysosomal acidification and may play a role in Parkinson's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders.

### External IDs and Aliases
HGNC: 19220

NCBI Entrez Gene: 22887

Ensembl: ENSG00000198500

OMIM: 609177

UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H3M8

Aliases: KRS, PARK9, ATPase cation transporting 13A4,  ATPase type 13A4

### AA Mutation List with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID
- p.Gly504Glu - Missense - rs121434369
- p.Arg531* - Nonsense - rs201016406
- p.Ile5Val - Missense - rs139358842
- p.Leu720Profs*7 - Frameshift - rs769031151

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs548307393
- rs146173637
- rs200386450

## Related Disease
ATP13A4 mutations have been linked to several neurodegenerative disorders, including Kufor-Rakeb syndrome, Spastic Paraplegia Type 78, and early-onset dementia.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no known cure for diseases caused by ATP13A4 mutations. Treatment is typically supportive and focused on managing symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is limited data available on drug response for patients with ATP13A4 mutations. More research is needed to determine if there are any targeted therapies that could be effective.

## Related Papers
- "Kufor-Rakeb syndrome, pallido-pyramidal degeneration with supranuclear gaze palsy and dementia, maps to 1p36.": [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/hmg/9.5.765) 
- "Novel ATP13A2 (PARK9) homozygous mutation in a family with marked phenotype variability.": [Click](https://doi.org/10.1159/000356551) 
- "ATP13A2 and Alpha-synuclein: a Metal Taste in Autophagy.": [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13024-019-0340-3)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**