---
title: "ARG1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for ARG1"
tags: ['ARG1', 'UreaCycle', 'Argininemia', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Enzyme', 'Metabolism']
---

# Gene Information for ARG1

## Basic Information
- Gene: ARG1
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 6
- Aliases: ARG, ARGH, HEL-S-66p

## Function of the ARG1 Gene
- The ARG1 gene provides instructions to produce the arginase enzyme, which is involved in the urea cycle. The urea cycle is responsible for breaking down excess protein in the body and removing waste products like ammonia. This process helps maintain a proper balance of nitrogen in the body.

## External IDs for the ARG1 Gene and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 636
- NCBI Entrez: 383
- Ensembl: ENSG00000108691
- OMIM: 608313
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P05089

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are a few known amino acid (AA) mutations in the ARG1 gene found in dbSNP:
- R31Q (rs61735643)
- R180P (rs1049710) 
- R278H (rs1049712)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.C272T (p.R91C) (rs3735657)

## Related Disease
- ARG1 deficiency causes a rare autosomal recessive disorder known as argininemia. Symptoms typically appear in early childhood and can include seizures, developmental delays, spasticity, and intellectual disability.

## Treatment and Prognosis 
- Treatment for argininemia is focused on managing symptoms and reducing the accumulation of toxic waste products. This may involve a low-protein diet, medications, and other supportive care measures. People with argininemia can lead normal lives with appropriate treatment.
 
## Drug Response
There is limited information on drug response for argininemia.

## Related Papers
- Author: Caldovic, L., Abdikarim, I., Narain, S., Tuchman, M. DOI: 10.1159/000313721
- Author: Bachmann, C. DOI: 10.3390/ijms161227142

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**