---
title: "P2RY8"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Analysis of Gene P2RY8"
tags: ['GeneP2RY8', 'Cancer', 'Lymphoma', 'Leukemia', 'ImmuneResponse', 'Mutation', 'DrugTarget', 'TherapeuticApproaches']
---

# Analysis of Gene P2RY8

## Information about Gene P2RY8

### Genetic Position
Gene P2RY8 is located on chromosome 19 (19q13.2) in humans.

### Pathology
Gene P2RY8 has been associated with various types of cancer, including lymphomas and leukemias.

### Function
Gene P2RY8 plays a key role in regulating signaling pathways in immune cells.

### External IDs
- HGNC: 29637
- NCBI Entrez: 84555
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105398
- OMIM: 610812
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H228

Aliases for gene P2RY8 include P2Y8, GPR105, and MGC22166.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several reported mutations in gene P2RY8. Some of the missense mutations reported in P2RY8 gene with their dbSNP identifiers are:

| Mutation Type | AA Mutation | dbSNP ID |
| :------------: | :-----------: | :---------: |
| Missense | A88T | rs186823864 |
| Missense | G56R | rs587778391 |
| Missense | R135W | rs121913393 |
| Missense | P222L | rs267607224 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels reported in gene P2RY8. Some of these mutations with their dbSNP identifiers are:

| Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| :------------: | :-----------: |
| SNV | rs587778391 |
| SNV | rs121913393 |
| SNV | rs267607224 |

### Related Disease
Gene P2RY8 has been associated with various types of cancer, including:

- B-Cell Lymphoma
- Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
- Follicular Lymphoma
- Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
- Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia

### Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis for cancer associated with gene P2RY8 may vary depending on the specific type and stage of cancer.

### Drug Response
Studies have suggested that gene P2RY8 may be a potential target for novel cancer therapies.

### Related Papers

- Subject: "The P2RY8-CRLF2-HIGH Expression Group in Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia: An Update on Molecular Characteristics and Treatment Responses."
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.cancergen.2020.07.004
  - Author: Sahin Kavaklioglu
- Subject: "Epigenomic Alterations Define Lymphocyte Lineage-Specific Amplification Strategies and Affect Immune Response in CLL."
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2015.06.056
  - Author: Lucia Conde
- Subject: "P2RY8-CRLF2 Fusion in Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia: Clinical Relevance and Therapeutic Approaches."
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.semcancer.2020.05.002
  - Author: Marta Fiocco

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**