---
title: "DRD4"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene DRD4"
tags: ['DRD4', 'DopamineReceptor', 'Neurotransmission', 'PsychiatricDisorders', 'ADHD', 'DrugResponse', 'MissenseMutation', 'MetaAnalysis']
---

# Information about Gene DRD4

## Genomic Location and Alias
- The DRD4 gene is located on chromosome 11 at the position 11p15.5.
- Alias: Dopamine receptor D4

## Function
The DRD4 gene encodes the dopamine D4 receptor that belongs to the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily. This receptor plays a significant role in neurotransmission and is involved in the regulation of dopamine levels within the brain. It helps in regulating reward-related behaviors, cognitive processes, and motor skills.

## External IDs 
- HGNC: 3029
- NCBI Entrez: 1815
- Ensembl : ENSG00000169083
- OMIM: 126452
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P21917

## AA Mutation List with dbSNP ID

| Amino Acid Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|------------------------|-------------------|-------------|
| V194G                       | Missense         | rs1800955 |
| S265L                        | Missense         | rs104894003 |
| T374T                       | Synonymous | rs77416839 |
| S444C                      | Missense         | rs1800974 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic variants have been reported for DRD4 yet.

## Related Disease
Several studies have suggested that variations in the DRD4 gene may be associated with various psychiatric disorders such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and substance abuse disorder, etc.

## Treatment and Prognosis
As different disorders are associated with this gene and their mechanisms are still being understood, treatments primarily focus on managing the symptoms rather than curing the disorder.

## Drug Response
Research suggests that medications such as amphetamine, methylphenidate, and atomoxetine, that target the dopamine system, have varying effects on patients with DRD4 gene variations and ADHD. However, more clinical studies are required for the full understanding of drug response.

## Related Papers
- Author: Faraone SV, Doyle AE, Mick E, Biederman J
  - Title: Meta-analysis of the association between the 7-repeat allele of the dopamine D(4) receptor gene and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
  - DOI: 10.1038/sj.mp.4001666

- Author: Schwab SG, Hallmayer J, Albus M, Borrmann M, Honig S, Lichtermann D, Ebstein RP, Lerer B, Maier W, Wildenauer DB
  - Title: A missense mutation in the dopamine receptor D4 gene (DRD4) is associated with novelty seeking as assessed by the Temperament and Character Inventory.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s004060050027

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**