---
title: "LOR"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: LOR"
tags: ['LOR', 'AutosomalRecessiveCongenitalIchthyosis', 'SkinDisorders', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment', 'GeneticInformation', 'Epidermis']
---

# Gene: LOR

## Basic information
- **Function:** The LOR gene encodes loricrin, a major protein component of the cornified cell envelope in the epidermis.
- **Genomic location:** Chromosome 1 (1q21.3)
- **Aliases:** LORICRIN, HRNR3, LOR1, LOR-SM1

## External IDs and sites
- **HGNC:** 6671
- **NCBI Entrez:** 4045
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000178798
- **OMIM:** 601277
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q9NSC5

## Mutations
- **AA mutation list:** Many mutations in LOR have been identified in association with autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis (ARCI), a group of rare inherited skin disorders. Some of the reported mutations include: D122G, G177fs, A211V, R107X, R151fs, R215fs, R300C, S95N.
- **Mutation type:** Missense, Frameshift, Nonsense, etc.
- **dbSNP ID:** rs146911112, rs386834063, rs375182850, rs121908574

## Somatic variants
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:** No somatic mutations have been reported for LOR at this time.
- **dbSNP ID:** N/A

## Related diseases
- **Disease:** Autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis (ARCI)
- **OMIM:** 242300
- **Other related genes:** ABCA12, ALOX12B, ALOXE3, CERS3, CYP4F22, NIPAL4, TGM1

## Treatment and prognosis
- There is no cure for ARCI, but treatment options include topical emollients and keratolytics to help manage symptoms. Prognosis depends on the severity and specific type of ARCI.

## Drug response
- There is no specific drug response information available for LOR at this time.

## Related papers
- **Subject:** A homozygous mutation in LOR causing autosomal recessive corneal ichthyosis. 
- **Author:** Traupe, H et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1038/jid.2008.6
- **Link:** [Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18200061/)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**