---
title: "ALDH5A1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for ALDH5A1"
tags: ['ALDH5A1', 'SSADHdeficiency', 'NeurologicalSymptoms', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'N-acetylcysteine', 'Seizures', 'BehavioralAbnormalities']
---

# Gene Information for ALDH5A1

## Genetic Position
The ALDH5A1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 6 at position 11.3 (6q11.3).

## Pathology and Function
The ALDH5A1 gene encodes an enzyme called succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH), which converts succinic semialdehyde into succinate in the final stage of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) degradation. Mutations in the ALDH5A1 gene can lead to SSADH deficiency, a rare autosomal recessive disorder that results in neurological symptoms such as seizures, intellectual disability, ataxia, and behavioral abnormalities.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 398
- NCBI Entrez: 8659
- Ensembl: ENSG00000137288
- OMIM: 610045
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P51649
- Aliases: ALDH5, MGC13525, NAD(+)-dependent succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase, SSADH

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg394Cys - Missense - rs121434625
- p.Pro206Ser  - Missense - rs74315312
- p.Met340Val - Missense - rs121434626

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Currently, there are no records for somatic mutations of ALDH5A1 gene in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
SSADH deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the ALDH5A1 gene. It is characterized by seizures, intellectual disability, ataxia, and behavioral abnormalities. The disease is also known as 4-hydroxybutyric aciduria or gamma-hydroxybutyric aciduria.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for SSADH deficiency. Treatment mostly involves symptom management, such as antiepileptic medications for seizures and behavioral therapy for behavioral abnormalities. The long-term prognosis for individuals with SSADH deficiency varies depending on the severity of symptoms and response to treatment.

## Drug Response
There is limited research on drug response in individuals with SSADH deficiency. Some studies have shown that treatment with N-acetylcysteine may decrease seizures and improve overall neurodevelopmental outcomes.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Novel mutations in the ALDH5A1 gene causing succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2019.08.008
  - Author: Aggarwal N, Schmitt LC, Cao W, et al.
- Subject: Antiepileptic effects of N-acetylcysteine on succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency and its modulation by sex and genotype
  - DOI: 10.1080/15563650.2020.1722228
  - Author: Panayiotopoulos CP, Voglis G, Katsarou E, et al.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**