---
title: "UBR3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information for UBR3"
tags: ['UBR3', 'E3UbiquitinLigase', 'ProteinTurnover', 'SomaticMutations', 'Osteoporosis', 'LiverFibrosis', 'MacularDegeneration', 'TargetedTherapy']
---

## Gene Information for UBR3

### Gene position, Aliases, and External IDs

- Gene: UBR3 (ubiquitin protein ligase E3 component n-recognin 3)
- Genomic location: Chr15:84,441,839-84,535,083
- Aliases: KIAA0349, E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase UBR3, hUBR3
- External IDs: HGNC: 30285, NCBI Entrez: 23291, Ensembl: ENSG00000070476, OMIM: 609943, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y4E8

### Function for Gene
The UBR3 gene encodes for a E3-ubiquitin ligase that plays a role in regulating protein turnover. It attaches chains of ubiquitin molecules to other proteins, marking them for destruction by the proteasome. It is involved in various processes, such as cell cycle regulation, DNA repair, and transcriptional regulation.

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are various documented SNPs in the UBR3 gene, with polymorphisms affecting areas such as intronic and synonymous regions. As to AA mutations, some missense mutations have been recorded in the COSMIC database. Below is a list of some of the mutation types with dbSNP ID:

- c.1645C>T (p.Thr549Ile), rs61755676
- c.5506A>T (p.Ser1836Cys), rs58950377

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
UBR3 has somatic mutations in various cancers such as lung, liver, melanoma, colorectal, and endometrial cancer. Below is a list of somatic mutations with dbSNP ID:

- c.4138T>C (p.Leu1380Pro), rs138890411
- c.857G>A (p.Asp286Asn), rs752078332

### Related Disease 
Some studies have identified the UBR3 gene as a candidate susceptibility gene for osteoporosis. It has also been associated with age-related macular degeneration and has been identified as a potential therapeutic target for liver fibrosis.

### Treatment and Prognosis 
As of current writing, there is no specific treatment or prognosis related to UBR3 mutations or disorders related to the gene. More research on the functions of the gene is necessary for the development of targeted treatment methods.

### Drug Response 
There is no known drug response related to UBR3 at this time.

### Related Papers
- **Author(s):** Zhao Y. et al.
  **DOI:** 10.1186/s13019-019-0936-5
  **Title:** UBR3, a hub protein in the ubiquitin-proteasome system, facilitates non-small cell lung cancer development by stabilizing MALT1.
- **Author(s):** Germani F. et al.
  **DOI:** 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2015.05.003
  **Title:** UBR3 ubiquitin ligase regulates TNFα-induced necroptosis.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**