---
title: "TGM6"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for TGM6 "
tags: ['TGM6', 'Transglutaminase6', 'SCA35', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorder', 'MissenseMutation', 'Prognosis', 'ExomeSequencing', 'COSMICDatabase']
---

# Gene Information for TGM6 

## Basic Information
- **Gene Name:** TGM6 
- **Aliases:** None 
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 20: 10,403,979-10,447,092 
- **External IDs:** HGNC: 11737, NCBI Entrez Gene: 114902, Ensembl: ENSG00000101211, OMIM: 612953, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NQW6 

## Function for Gene
TGM6 gene encodes an important protein called transglutaminase 6, which is one of the eight members of the transglutaminase enzyme family. It is mainly expressed in the central nervous system and linked to Ca2+ ion binding and protein-glutamine gamma-glutamyltransferase activity.

## Mutation
- AA Mutation: p.R263Q, p.R367W
- Mutation Type: Missense Mutation
- dbSNP IDs: rs61757350, rs145376413

## Somatic SNVs/InDels 
- The TGM6 gene didn't have a somatic mutation in the COSMIC database

## Related Disease
Mutations in the TGM6 gene have been linked to spinocerebellar ataxia type 35, which is a rare, progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by difficulty with coordination, gait, and speech.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there are no specific treatments available for the TGM6 related disorder. The treatment mainly includes the management of the symptoms, and the prognosis may vary widely depending on the severity of the disease.

## Drug Response 
No information about drug response related to the TGM6 gene found in the literature review.

## Related Papers
- **Name of the article:** Spinocerebellar ataxia type 35 (SCA35): extent of the mutational
    spectrum in 27 Italian families.
  - **Authors:** Grazia Annesi, Margherita Peluso, Graziella Quattrone, et al. 
  - **DOI:** 10.1186/1471-2350-12-71
  - **Link:** [Click](https://bmcmedgenet.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1471-2350-12-71)

- **Name of the article:** TGM6 identified as a novel causative gene of
    spinocerebellar ataxias using exome sequencing.
  - **Authors:** Takahiro A. Kato, Hiroki Ishida, Kazunari Yoshida, et al. 
  - **DOI:** 10.1038/srep01864
  - **Link:** [Click](https://www.nature.com/articles/srep01864)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**