---
title: "CYP11B2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: CYP11B2 "
tags: ['CYP11B2', 'AldosteroneSynthase', 'Hyperaldosteronism', 'Hypertension', 'ACEInhibitors', 'AngiotensinReceptorBlockers', 'GeneticMutations', 'AdrenalGland']
---

# Gene: CYP11B2 

## Information

- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 8q24.3
- **Pathology:** Mutations in the CYP11B2 gene are associated with aldosterone production, which can cause high blood pressure, heart failure, and stroke.
- **Function:** The CYP11B2 gene encodes an enzyme called aldosterone synthase that plays a key role in the regulation of aldosterone production in the adrenal gland.
- **Aliases:** CYP11BL, CPN2, P450C11AS 

## External IDs

- **HGNC:** HGNC:2588
- **NCBI Entrez:** 1585
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000164733
- **OMIM:** 124080
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** P19099

## Mutations

- **AA Mutation List:** Some of the known mutations in the CYP11B2 gene include:
  - G2201A 
  - A1052G 
  - C889T
- **Mutation Type:** Missense mutation
- **dbSNP ID:** rs4546, rs1799998, rs1799997

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

- **dbSNP ID:** None reported to date

## Related Disease

- Mutations in the CYP11B2 gene are associated with familial hyperaldosteronism type I and II, as well as primary aldosteronism and hypertension.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- Treatment varies depending on the specific condition and severity, but may include medications to control blood pressure, surgical removal of affected adrenal glands, or dietary changes.
- Prognosis is generally good with proper treatment.

## Drug Response

- Some medications commonly used to treat hypertension, such as ACE inhibitors and angiotensin-receptor blockers, work by targeting the aldosterone pathway regulated by the CYP11B2 gene.

## References

- Zennaro, MC, Boulkroun, S, Fernandes-Rosa, F. "Aldosterone-producing adenomas: the new paradigm of primary aldosteronism." Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2015; 399: 477-489. doi: 10.1016/j.mce.2014.10.017.
- Scholl, UI, Stölting, G, Nelson-Williams, C. "Recurrent gain of function mutation in calcium channel CACNA1H causes early-onset hypertension with primary aldosteronism." Elife. 2015; 4: e06315. doi: 10.7554/eLife.06315.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**