---
title: "DPYS"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene DPYS"
tags: ['DPYS', 'DihydropyrimidineDehydrogenase', 'DPDDeficiency', 'GeneticMutation', 'UracilCatabolism', 'FluoropyrimidineToxicity', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene DPYS

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

- **Genetic Position:** DPYS gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 8 at position 22.1.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in the DPYS gene can lead to dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency (DPD deficiency), which is an autosomal recessive disorder.
- **Function:** The DPYS gene encodes dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), which is a key enzyme involved in the catabolism of uracil and thymine. 

## Gene Information

- **Function for Gene:** The DPYS gene encodes dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) enzyme that plays a crucial role in nitrogen metabolism and pyrimidine catabolism.
- **External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases:**

    - HGNC: 3067
    - NCBI Entrez: 1809
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000168552
    - OMIM: 274270
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P32429

- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**

    There are several AA mutations reported in the DPYS gene. Here are some examples:

    |AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
    |---------|---------|---------|
    |p.Leu264Pro|Missense|rs1801160|
    |p.Ala308Val|Missense|rs1801161|
    |p.Ile543Val|Missense|rs11545077|
    
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

    There is no report of any somatic SNVs/ InDels in the DPYS gene available in dbSNP.

- **Related Disease:**

    Mutations in DPYS gene can lead to dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency (DPD deficiency). It is an autosomal recessive disorder that affects the degradation of uracil and thymine. Some of the common symptoms of this disease include developmental delay, seizures, intellectual disability, and poor muscle tone.

- **Treatment and Prognosis:**

    The treatment of DPD deficiency involves the use of uridine replacement therapy or reducing the dose of fluoropyrimidine medication. The prognosis of this disease varies depending on the severity of the symptoms and age of onset.

- **Drug Response:**

    Patients with DPD deficiency can have severe and life-threatening toxicities if they are given chemotherapy with high doses of fluoropyrimidines (such as 5-FU and capecitabine) due to impaired metabolism of these drugs.

## References

- van Kuilenburg, A. B. P., & van Gennip, A. H. (2004). Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency and treatment with fluoropyrimidines. Cytotoxic Anticancer Drugs, 2, 325–330. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1572-3887(08)60020-2)

- DPYS gene overview in the NCBI database: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/1809)

- DPYS gene overview in the Ensembl database: [Click](https://www.ensembl.org/Homo_sapiens/Gene/Summary?db=core;g=ENSG00000168552;r=8:3642385-3658640)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**