---
title: "UGT1A8"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: UGT1A8"
tags: ['UGT1A8', 'ColorectalCancer', 'DrugMetabolism', 'Pharmacogenetics', 'Mutation', 'Detoxification', 'GeneticInformation', 'GeneticPosition']
---

## Gene: UGT1A8

### Information:

- **Genetic position:** Chromosome 2
- **Pathology:** UGT1A8 mutations are associated with increased risk of colorectal cancer.
- **Function:** UGT1A8 encodes for an enzyme involved in the detoxification of xenobiotics, such as drugs and foreign chemicals.
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 12517
    - NCBI Entrez: 54662
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000172310
    - OMIM: 606878
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P78368
- **Aliases:** UGT1A10, UDPGT, UDPGT 1-8, UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1A10 

### Mutations:

- **AA Mutation List:** 
    - p.Trp208Cys
    - p.Ser165Thr
    - p.Lys3Asn
- **Mutation Type:** Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (dbSNP IDs: rs4148298, rs1042597, rs522855)

### Related Diseases:

UGT1A8 mutations are associated with the following diseases: 
- Colorectal cancer

### Treatment and Prognosis:

There is no specific treatment for UGT1A8 mutations. Management and treatment of diseases associated with this gene are based on the symptoms and severity of the condition. The prognosis varies depending on the disease and the individual case.

### Drug Response:

UGT1A8 mutations can affect drug response and metabolism. For example, individuals with UGT1A8*2 gene variant have a decreased metabolism of the anticancer drug irinotecan, which can result in increased toxicity.

### Related Papers:

- Author Name: Gibson RA, et al.
  - Title: "The impact of UGT1A9, UGT2B7 and CYP2C9 pharmacogenetic markers and demographic factors on tramadol metabolism and pharmacodynamics."
  - DOI: 10.1111/1465-6566.12326
- Author Name: Fernández-Rozadilla C, et al.
  - Title: "Colorectal cancer susceptibility variants in a population-based study: multivariate statistical analysis using factor analysis."
  - DOI: 10.1007/s00439-012-1150-x

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**