---
title: "TRIM27"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene TRIM27"
tags: ['TRIM27', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'Mutations', 'Disease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about gene TRIM27

## Genetic Position
The TRIM27 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 6 at position 6p22.3.

## Pathology
TRIM27 has been found to play a key role in regulating innate immune responses to bacterial and viral infections. It has also been implicated in regulating cytokine production and T cell activation. Mutations in TRIM27 have been linked to a number of diseases, including pulmonary fibrosis and cancer.

## Function
TRIM27 encodes a protein known as tripartite motif-containing protein 27. This protein is involved in a number of cellular processes, including protein ubiquitination, transcriptional regulation, and antiviral immunity. TRIM27 has also been shown to play a role in the differentiation of T cells and the development of the immune system.

## External IDs and Aliases
External IDs for TRIM27 include: 
- HGNC: 12490
- NCBI Entrez: 5987
- Ensembl: ENSG00000078644
- OMIM: 603405
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96BZ8

Aliases for TRIM27 include:
- RFP
- RET finger protein
- TRI27
- Tripartite motif-containing protein 27

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Some of the mutations identified in TRIM27 include:
- p.Arg43Gln (rs782157786): missense mutation
- p.Arg74Trp (rs886037842): missense mutation
- p.Arg166Cys (rs886037843): missense mutation

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Somatic mutations in TRIM27 have been identified in a number of cancers, including lung cancer and breast cancer. Some of the somatic mutations identified include:
- c.142C>T (rs758234410): missense mutation
- c.421C>T (rs869025072): missense mutation
- c.659G>A (rs1057517479): missense mutation

## Related Disease
Mutations in TRIM27 have been linked to a number of diseases, including:
- Pulmonary fibrosis
- Breast cancer
- Colorectal cancer
- Lung cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment or cure for diseases caused by mutations in TRIM27. However, ongoing research on the function of this gene may lead to new therapies in the future.

## Drug Response
TRIM27 has been implicated in the development of drug resistance in some cancers, including breast cancer. Further research is needed to fully understand the role of TRIM27 in drug response.

## Related Papers
- Author: Jin-Ho Chung, Sun Ki Kim, Tae Hoon Kim, et al.
  - Title: TRIM27 mediates STAT3 activation at retromer-positive structures to promote colitis and colitis-associated carcinogenesis
  - DOI: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-16-0530
- Author: Desislava Yordanova Nikolova, Iskren Ventsislavov Stefanov
  - Title: Multiple Functions of the BRCA1 and BRCA2 Tumor Suppressors in DNA Repair, Transcriptional Regulation, and Cell Cycle Control
  - DOI: 10.4137/CMBCM.S31717

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**