---
title: "SLC25A13"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['SLC25A13', 'CitrinDeficiency', 'MitochondrialDisorder', 'GeneticMutation', 'Metabolism', 'LiverDysfunction', 'LowProteinDiet', 'LiverTransplantation']
---

## Gene Information

Gene name: SLC25A13

Genetic Position: Chromosome 7: 71,834,026 - 71,902,444

Pathology: Mutation in SLC25A13 gene causes Citrin deficiency, an autosomal recessive disorder.

Function: SLC25A13 encodes a protein called citrin, which is a mitochondrial solute carrier involved in the transportation of aspartate, glutamate, and citrate across the inner mitochondrial membrane. The gene plays a crucial role in gluconeogenesis, ureagenesis, and lipid metabolism.

External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC ID: 10909
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 10165
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000106354
- OMIM ID: 603859
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: O75746

## Mutations
- AA mutation list: Several mutations have been reported in the SLC25A13 gene. The common ones are:
    - c.851del4 (p.Gly284fs) 
    - c.1635_1636delAG (p.Glu546fs)
    - c.1630 G>A (p.Arg544His)
    - c.1630 G>C (p.Arg544Pro)
    - c.1523G>T (p.Gly508Trp)
    - c.851C>T (p.Gln284*)
- Mutation type: Frameshift, Nonsense, Missense
- dbSNP ID: rs28940871, rs28940872, rs80338691, rs80338692, rs80338693, rs80338694, rs797044495, rs80338751

## Related Diseases
Citrin deficiency is associated with the following diseases:
- Adult-onset type II citrullinemia (CTLN2)
- Neonatal intrahepatic cholestasis caused by citrin deficiency (NICCD)
- Failure to thrive and dyslipidemia (FTTDCD)

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for citrin deficiency. The treatment mainly focuses on the management of symptoms such as low blood sugar, high ammonia levels, and liver dysfunction. A low-protein diet supplemented with essential amino acids is recommended. Liver transplantation is considered in severe cases. The prognosis of the disease depends on the severity of symptoms and the time of diagnosis.

## Drug Response
There is no specific drug treatment available for citrin deficiency.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Molecular mechanisms underlying neonatal intrahepatic cholestasis caused by citrin deficiency (NICCD) 
  - Author: Saheki T., Kobayashi K.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1080/15216540214929)

- Subject: SLC25A13 Gene Mutations in Korean Patients with Neonatal and Infantile Intrahepatic Cholestasis 
  - Author: Yang H.R., Kim H.Y., Kim S.M., Jang Y.O., Lee S., Kim D.J., Kim K.M., Kim G.H., Choi E.O.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.5009/gnl.2009.3.2.85)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**