---
title: "NDUFA4"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene NDUFA4"
tags: ['NDUFA4', 'MitochondrialComplexIDeficiency', 'RespiratoryChainComplexI', 'EnergyMetabolism', 'GeneticMutation', 'SupportiveCare', 'NeurodegenerativeDisease', 'MitochondrialMembranePotential']
---

# Information about gene NDUFA4

## Genetic Position:

NDUFA4 (NADH: ubiquinone oxidoreductase subunit A4), also known as "C6ORF66" (Chromosome 6 Open Reading Frame 66), is located on chromosome 6p21.33.

## Pathology and Function: 

The NDUFA4 gene provides instructions for coding the NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase subunit A4 protein. This protein is a subunit of the respiratory chain complex I, which is located in the inner mitochondrial membrane. The complex I plays a critical role in cellular respiration, and it is involved in the oxidative phosphorylation system that generates ATP required for energy. Mutations in the NDUFA4 gene have been associated with mitochondrial complex I deficiency, one of the most frequent inborn errors of metabolism. 

## External IDs and Aliases:

- HGNC ID: 7899
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 374291
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000178992
- OMIM ID: 606934
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9BV47
- Aliases: C6orf66, D6S51-124E

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:

- p.Ala75Thr (rs137852786)
- p.Arg65Gln (rs137852787)
- p.Leu81Pro (rs398122559)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported yet in the NDUFA4 gene.

## Related Disease:

NDUFA4 gene mutations have been associated with mitochondrial complex I deficiency, which can lead to a broad range of clinical manifestations that often involve multiple organ systems. The symptoms of the disease may include hypotonia, hypoglycemia, lactic acidosis, cardiomyopathy, and developmental delay.

## Treatment and Prognosis:

There is no cure for mitochondrial complex I deficiency caused by NDUFA4 gene mutations. Management options typically involve supportive care to reduce symptoms. Treatment may include special diets, supplements, and medications to control energy metabolism.

## Drug Response:

There is no specific drug for mitochondrial complex I deficiency caused by NDUFA4 gene mutations. However, the response to treatment varies depending on the severity of the mutation and the symptoms.

## Related Papers:

- **Title**: Mutations in NDUFA4 reduce the mitochondrial membrane potential and result in fetal-onset developmental brain abnormalities. 
**Author(s)**: Parfait B, et al.
**DOI**: 10.1093/hmg/ddn107

- **Title**: A novel NDUFA1 mutation leads to a progressive mitochondrial complex I-specific neurodegenerative disease. 
**Author(s)**: Alston CL, et al.
**DOI**: 10.1093/brain/awv039.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**