---
title: "CCDC103"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information for CCDC103"
tags: ['CCDC103', 'CoiledCoilDomain', 'CiliaFunction', 'AAmutations', 'PrimaryCiliaryDyskinesia', 'ProteinFunction', 'GeneticInformation', 'SomaticMutations']
---

## Gene Information for CCDC103

### Genetic Position and Pathology
- Gene: CCDC103
- Chromosomal Location: 17q12
- Pathology: There is no known pathology directly linked to this gene.

### Gene Function
CCDC103 encodes a coiled-coil domain-containing protein. The function of this protein is not well understood, but it has been suggested to play a role in cilia and flagella function.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: HGNC:30408
- NCBI Entrez: 55732
- Ensembl: ENSG00000141375
- OMIM: 610290
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HCE1
- Aliases: FLJ36145

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several AA mutations reported in the CCDC103 gene. The following is a list of some of the reported mutations and their corresponding dbSNP IDs:
- p.Leu94Ser (rs3814802)
- p.Asp98Gly (rs55673675)
- p.Thr145Met (rs2228921)
- p.Arg190Trp (rs55639517)
- p.Ser299Thr (rs2285767)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic SNVs or InDels for CCDC103 in dbSNP.

### Related Disease
There is currently no known disease that is directly associated with mutations in CCDC103.

### Treatment and Prognosis
As there are no known diseases linked to mutations in CCDC103, there are no specific treatments or prognoses related to this gene.

### Drug Response
There is no information available on drug response related to CCDC103.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Defining the Human Cilia Proteome Affinity Purification of CCP110 Validates Cilium Complexity and Expression of Multiple Complexes
  - Author: JM Pazour et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2005.10.040)
- Subject: Mutations in CCDC103 Cause Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia and Disrupt Ciliary Motility
  - Author: AK Lucas et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2013.04.005)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**