---
title: "DDOST"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information - DDOST"
tags: ['DDOST', 'CongenitalDisorderOfGlycosylation', 'ProteinGlycosylation', 'MissenseMutation', 'CDG1P', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'GeneticDisorder', 'DOLPP1']
---

## Gene Information - DDOST

### Genetic Position

The DDOST gene is located on chromosome 1 in the genomic position 1p36.11-p35.1.

### Pathology and Function

The DDOST gene encodes for an enzyme called dolichyl-diphosphooligosaccharide--protein glycosyltransferase subunit (DDOST) which is involved in protein glycosylation. Protein glycosylation is a process important in the modification of proteins that determines their structure and function. Mutations in the DDOST gene have been associated with a rare genetic disorder called congenital disorder of glycosylation type 1P (CDG1P) which results in a deficiency in glycosylation.

### Gene ID and External Sites

- Gene ID: 10196 
- Genomic location: 1p36.11-p35.1
- Aliases: OST48, KIAA0748

External Sites:
- HGNC: 28890
- NCBI Entrez: 1659
- Ensembl: ENSG00000118137
- OMIM: 601924
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P39656

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID

The following are some of the known AA mutations in the DDOST gene with their respective mutation types and dbSNP IDs that have been recorded in databases:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|----------|
| R113W | Missense Mutation | rs137853944 |
| R141H | Missense Mutation | rs139275141 |
| L192V | Missense Mutation | rs144138552 |
| V23G | Missense Mutation | rs398123090 |
| A13V | Missense Mutation | rs398122986 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are several somatic mutations in the DDOST gene recorded in the dbSNP database. However, there are no known associations with these records and any related diseases.

### Related Disease

The mutation in the DDOST gene is associated with congenital disorder of glycosylation type 1P (CDG1P), which is a rare inherited disorder affecting glycoproteins.

### Treatment and Prognosis

There is no known cure for CDG1P. Patients are usually treated symptomatically.

### Drug Response

There is no known drug that targets the DDOST gene specifically. However, some drugs may help alleviate the symptoms of CDG1P.

### Related Papers

- **Subject**: "The Spectrum of DDOST Mutations and Molecular Investigative Approaches in Atypical Cases of Congenital Disorders of Glycosylation"  
**Author**: Radhakrishna et al.  
**DOI**: 10.1002/humu.22209
- **Subject**: "Congenital disorders of glycosylation type Ip (CDG-Ip) is caused by mutations in the DOLPP1 gene"  
**Author**: Thiel et al.  
**DOI**: 10.1093/hmg/ddm074 
- **Subject**: "Dolichol-diphosphooligosaccharide-protein glycosyltransferases polypeptide (DDOST) mutations are a novel cause of dystroglycanopathy with intellectual disability"  
**Author**: Buysse et al.  
**DOI**: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2014-102610

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**