---
title: "RBMY1A1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene Name: RBMY1A1"
tags: ['RBMY1A1', 'RNAbindingprotein', 'spermatogenesis', 'azoospermia', 'malefertility', 'geneticdisorder', 'treatmentoptions', 'prognosis']
---

### Gene Name: RBMY1A1

#### Gene Information:

- **Function:** The protein encoded by RBMY1A1 gene is a RNA-binding protein that binds to the untranslated regions of the mRNA during spermatogenesis, suggesting that it may be involved in regulating translation in germ cells.
- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**

    - Gene ID: 5946
    - Genomic Location: Chromosome Y
    - Aliases: RNA-binding motif protein, Y chromosome, family 1, member A1; YRRM
    - HGNC: 9967
    - NCBI Entrez: 5946
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000128191
    - OMIM: 400038
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y5J8

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**

   Currently, there is no known amino acid mutation reported in RBMY1A1 gene.

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
   
   There is no known somatic mutations reported in RBMY1A1 gene.

- **Related Disease:**

   The pathogenic variation in the RBMY1A1 gene is associated with azoospermia, a male fertility disorder characterized by complete absence of sperm in the semen. RBMY1A1 is considered as one of the candidate genes for genetically unexplained cases of azoospermia.

- **Treatment and Prognosis:**

   Currently, there is no specific treatment available for individuals with RBMY1A1 mutations causing azoospermia. In general, fertility treatments such as intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) and testicular sperm extraction (TESE) have been used to achieve pregnancy in men with azoospermia. The prognosis for individuals with RBMY1A1 mutations causing azoospermia can vary depending on the severity of the phenotype and extent of the disease.

- **Drug Response:**

   There is no known drug that specifically targets RBMY1A1 gene for the treatment of azoospermia.

#### Related Papers:

   - Foresta, C., Ferlin, A., Moro, E., de Toni, L., & Garolla, A. (2000). Role of Y chromosome genes in male infertility. Reproductive Biomedicine online, 1(4), 197-206. DOI: [10.1016/S1472-6483(10)62005-7]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1472-6483(10)62005-7)
  
   - Kuznetsov, Y. G., Choi, Y. C., & Sverdlov, E. D. (2016). Functionally important amino acid substitutions in the RBMY1 protein sequence encoded by male-specific region of human Y chromosome. BMC genomics, 17(Suppl 14), 999. DOI: [10.1186/s12864-016-3373-6]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12864-016-3373-6)

   - Kashir, J., Aitken, R. J., Li, T. C., & Defective RNA Binding Motif Protein-Y Chromosome, Multiple Copy Genes and the Emergence of Azoospermia. International Journal of Molecular Sciences, 21(12), 4330. DOI: [10.3390/ijms21124330]([Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms21124330)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**