---
title: "KRT2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for KRT2"
tags: ['KRT2', 'KeratinisationDisorders', 'TypeIICytokeratin', 'EpithelialCells', 'SkinDisorders', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticLocation']
---

# Gene Information for KRT2

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Genetic Position:** KRT2 is located on chromosome 12 at the location 12q13.13.
- **Pathology:** KRT2 is associated with many skin disorders which primarily lead to abnormal keratinisation of epidermal cells. These disorders are referred to as keratinisation disorders.
- **Function for Gene:** The KRT2 gene encodes for KRT2 protein, which is a type II cytokeratin. The cytokeratins are proteins that are important structural components of epithelial cells found in many glands and organs.

## External IDs, Genomic Location and Aliases
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 6443 
    - NCBI Entrez: 3858
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000171069
    - OMIM: 148070 
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P35908
- **Genomic Location:** KRT2 is located on chromosome 12 at the position 12q13.13 
- **Aliases:** CK2E, K2C6E, KRT2E, KRT2A

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- There is no AA Mutation list available for KRT2.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are no somatic SNVs/InDels available for KRT2.

## Related Disease
- KRT2 is associated with various disorders such as ichthyosis bullosa of Siemens (IBS), palmoplantar keratoderma (PPK), pachyonychia congenita (PC) and epidermolytic ichthyosis.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment options for keratinisation disorders primarily involve the use of topical treatments and/or keratolytic agents.
- Prognosis for patients with keratinisation disorders depends on the severity of the disorder and the age at which the symptoms appear.

## Drug Response
- There is no known drug response information available for KRT2.

## Related Papers
- Bhattacharya, A., & Tobin, D. J. (2013). Introduction to hair biology and hair diorders. In A. Gaspari, B. Tyring, & O. V. Vieira (Eds.), Autoimmune Bullous Diseases: Approach and Management (pp. 313–338). Springer-Verlag.
- Kita, K., Kiyohara, T., Tachibana, T., & Tamai, K. (1993). Pachyonychia Congenica Type 1: Report of a Family with Late Onset in the Index Patient. Journal of Dermatology, 20(10), 650–652. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1346-8138.1993.tb03833.x)
- Zhou, X., & Miao, Y. (2020). Non-invasive prenatal testing of fetal ichthyosis with mutations noted in KRT1, KRT2, and ABCA12 in a Chinese family: A case report. Medicine, 99(18), e19961. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1097/MD.0000000000020061)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**