---
title: "IL6R"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: IL6R"
tags: ['IL6R', 'Interleukin6Receptor', 'GeneFunction', 'SNP', 'RelatedDiseases', 'DrugResponse', 'MonoclonalAntibodies', 'Inflammation']
---

## Gene: IL6R

**Function:** The IL6R gene encodes for the interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R) protein. This protein forms a complex with interleukin-6 (IL-6) and is involved in the regulation of immune responses and inflammation.

**Genomic Location (GRCh38):** Chromosome 1, NC_000001.11 (123,157,289-123,217,089)

**Aliases:** CD126, gp80, IL6Q

**External IDs:**
- HGNC: 5983
- NCBI Entrez: 3570
- Ensembl: ENSG00000160712
- OMIM: 147880
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P08887

**AA Mutation List:** 
- c.1818A>G (p.Asn606Ser) rs2228145
- c.1744A>C (p.Asn582Thr) rs2228146
- c.1741G>T (p.Asp581Tyr) rs2228144

**Mutation Type:** Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)

**Somatic SNVs/InDels:** None reported in COSMIC database (as of September 2021)

**Related Disease:** IL6R gene mutations/polymorphisms have been associated with various diseases such as:

- Rheumatoid arthritis
- Asthma
- Multiple sclerosis
- Inflammatory bowel disease
- Prostate cancer
- Hodgkin's lymphoma

**Treatment and Prognosis:** There is limited information on the treatment and prognosis of IL6R-related diseases. However, targeting IL-6R with monoclonal antibodies (e.g. tocilizumab) has shown promise in treating certain inflammatory conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis.

**Drug Response:** Individuals with certain IL6R gene polymorphisms have shown varying responses to treatment with IL-6R inhibitors such as tocilizumab.

**References:**
- Lee, H. S., & Lee, K. (2020). Role of the IL-6 receptor in CD4+ T cell effector and regulatory differentiation. Allergy, Asthma & Immunology Research, 12(6), 910–923. [Click](https://doi.org/10.4168/aair.2020.12.6.910)
- IL6R gene - Genetics Home Reference. (n.d.). Retrieved September 29, 2021, from [Click](https://ghr.nlm.nih.gov/gene/IL6R)
- Interleukin-6 receptor - an overview | ScienceDirect Topics. (n.d.). Retrieved September 29, 2021, from [Click](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/neuroscience/interleukin-6-receptor)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**