---
title: "CHST3"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene CHST3"
tags: ['CHST3', 'skeletal', 'dysplasia', 'proteoglycans', 'mutation', 'missense', 'joint', 'pain', 'short', 'stature', 'cartilage']
---

## Gene CHST3

**Function:** The CHST3 gene encodes for a protein called chondroitin 6-O-sulfotransferase-1, which adds sulfate groups to the carboxyl ends of chondroitin sulfate chains in proteoglycans. This helps control the interactions between cells and the extracellular matrix.

**External IDs and Genomic location:**
- HGNC: 1977
- NCBI Entrez: 9468
- Ensembl: ENSG00000157307
- OMIM: 603799
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O14862
- Genomic location: Chromosome 10q22.1

**Aliases:** C6ST1, C6ST

**AA mutation list:**

|Mutation|dbSNP ID|Mutation Type|
|--------|--------|-------------|
|p.His184Arg|rs61751374|Missense|
|p.Leu268Val|rs387906788|Missense|

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID for CHST3 gene.

**Related Disease:** Mutations in the CHST3 gene are associated with a rare genetic disorder called skeletal dysplasia. This disease affects the development of bones and cartilage, leading to short stature, skeletal abnormalities, and joint pain.

**Treatment and prognosis:** Currently, no specific treatment is available for skeletal dysplasia caused by mutations in the CHST3 gene. Treatment typically involves managing symptoms and complications such as joint pain, spine and limb deformities, and impaired mobility. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the condition.

**Drug response:** No information is available on drug response related to mutations in the CHST3 gene.

**Related papers and DOI links:**
- Name of the paper, DOI, Name of the author
- Example: "Mutation analysis of the CHST3 gene in Korean patients with brachydactyly type C", [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13039-019-0424-1,) Kim et al.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**