---
title: "BOC"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene BOC"
tags: ['GeneBOC', 'ImmunoglobulinSuperfamily', 'NervousSystemDevelopment', 'AxonGuidance', 'SynapseFormation', 'NoRelatedDisease', 'MissenseMutations', 'NCAM']
---

## Gene BOC
**Genetic position:** Chromosome 3q13.31

**Pathology:** Not currently associated with any disease

**Function:** The BOC gene encodes for a protein that is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily and has been shown to play a role in the development of the nervous system, including axon guidance and synapse formation.

**External IDs and Aliases:**
- HGNC: 11006
- NCBI Entrez: 91653
- Ensembl: ENSG00000185046
- OMIM: 608707
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BWV1
- Aliases: Brother of CDO (BOC) 

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** There are several missense mutations in the BOC gene identified in dbSNP, however, none of these mutations have been associated with any disease.

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No somatic mutations have been reported in the BOC gene according to dbSNP.

**Related disease:** None known

**Treatment and prognosis:** Not applicable as no related disease.

**Drug response:** Not applicable as no related disease.

**Related papers:**
- Lim YS, et al. BOC regulates the activity and degradation of SHh pathway components. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2018. PMID: 29208719
- Nakano M, et al. Direct binding of neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) to BOC, a regulator of hedgehog signaling in neural tissue. J Biol Chem. 2014. PMID: 24928508
- Gomez G, et al. Differential expression of BOC, an Ig superfamily member, in subsets of neuroblastoma cell lines and its relationship to MYCN expression. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2009. PMID: 18478697

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**