---
title: "CELSR2"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information Analysis Report: CELSR2 "
tags: ['CELSR2', 'Cadherin', 'NeuralDevelopment', 'NeuralTubeDefect', 'CardiovascularDiseases', 'Schizophrenia', 'SomaticVariants', 'FolicAcidSupplementation']
---

# Gene Information Analysis Report: CELSR2 

## Overview
CELSR2 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 (1q31.3) and encodes for the cadherin EGF LAG seven-pass G-type receptor 2 protein. This protein belongs to the flamingo subfamily of Cadherin protein family.

## Function
Cadherins are integral membrane proteins that mediate calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion. CELSR2 plays a significant role in planar cell polarity, where it is involved in the establishment of cell polarity during the formation of neural tube and limb bud. It also plays an important role in neural development.

## External IDs and Aliases
- **Gene ID:** 1952
- **HGNC ID:** 1881
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000047617
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** Q9NYQ7
- **Aliases**: CDHF10, FLJ12923

## AA Mutation and Mutation type
CELSR2 gene mutations have been found in various diseases, including neural tube defect and cardiovascular diseases. Here is a list of some of the known AA mutations and their specific gene type along with the dbSNP ID.

| AA Mutation  | Gene type      | dbSNP ID    |
|:-------------|:-------------|:------------|
| R669X       | Nonsense       | rs199674188 |
| R63fs       | Frameshift     | rs376354050 |
| V441I       | Missense       | rs149304896 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic Single Nucleotide Variants (SNVs) and Insertions and Deletions (InDels) found in the CELSR2 gene. These somatic variants are associated with a variety of cancers. Here are some examples of somatic variants and their respective dbSNP ID.

| Somatic Variants | dbSNP ID |
|:----------------|:---------|
| p.Q58R | rs372265557 |
| p.N1032K | rs1057518692 |

## Related Disease
Variants in CELSR2 gene have been associated with multiple diseases. Some of the related diseases in which this gene is found to be involved are:

- Neural tube defect (NTD)
- Cardiovascular diseases
- Schizophrenia

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no specific treatment available for CELSR2 gene-related diseases. However, some studies suggest that prenatal folic acid supplementation might prevent the occurrence of neural tube defects.

## Drug Response
There is no known drug response for CELSR2 gene-related diseases.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** The role of CELSR2 in neural development and neural tube defects
  - **Author:** Zhang Z et al.
  - **DOI:** 10.1002/bdr2.1715
  
- **Subject:** CELSR2 Variations as Risk Factors for Schizophrenia in the Chinese Han Population
  - **Author:** Tan W et al.
  - **DOI:** 10.1159/000489250

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**