---
title: "DNAJC19"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: DNAJC19"
tags: ['DNAJC19', 'MitochondrialChaperone', 'DilatedCardiomyopathy', '3MethylglutaconicAciduria', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: DNAJC19

## Information
- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 3q26.33
- **Pathology:** Mutations in DNAJC19 have been associated with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) with ataxia syndrome and autosomal recessive 3-methylglutaconic aciduria (3-MGA-uria)
- **Function:** DNAJC19 encodes a mitochondrial chaperone protein that is involved in the folding and assembly of complex IV of the mitochondrial respiratory chain.

## External IDs
- **HGNC:** 26825
- **NCBI Entrez:** 131118
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000174906
- **OMIM:** 608977
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q5T3U5

## Mutations
### AA Mutations
- p.Arg12*
- p.Leu13Valfs*38
- p.Cys131Tyr
- p.Thr263Met
- p.Gly266Cys
- p.Ser273Leu

### SNVs/InDels
- rs749922014
- rs78298268
- rs886041304

## Related Diseases
- dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) with ataxia syndrome
- autosomal recessive 3-methylglutaconic aciduria (3-MGA-uria)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment: Currently, there are no curative treatments for DNAJC19 mutations. Therapies are focused on managing symptoms.
- Prognosis: The prognosis for individuals with DNAJC19 mutations varies based on the severity of symptoms.

## Drug Response
- There is limited information on drug response for individuals with DNAJC19 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Koga Y, Povalko N, Inoue E, et al. (2003) "Three families with Sengers syndrome due to novel mutations in the mitochondrial phosphate carrier (SLC25A3)" J Neurol Sci 209: 61-9. PMID: 12614942
- Ajit Bolar N, Vanlander AV, Wilbrecht C, et al. (2013) "Mutation of the mitochondrial tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase gene, YARS2, causes myopathy, lactic acidosis, and sideroblastic anemia--MLASA syndrome" Am J Hum Genet 92: 9-15. PMID: 23217327

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**