---
title: "AURKC"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: AURKC"
tags: ['AURKC', 'MaleInfertility', 'Meiosis', 'AuroraKinase', 'GeneticMutations', 'AssistedReproductiveTechnologies', 'AutosomalRecessive', 'ChromosomeSegregation']
---

# Gene: AURKC

## Genetic Position and Genomic Location

The AURKC gene (Aurora kinase C) is located on the long arm of chromosome X (Xq13.1) and spans approximately 47.5 kilobases (kb) of genomic DNA.

## Pathology and Function

The AURKC gene encodes a member of the Aurora kinase family of serine/threonine protein kinases. Aurora kinases play a crucial role in regulating cellular division and are involved in cell cycle progression, chromosome segregation, and cytokinesis. AURKC is predominantly expressed in the testis and is essential for spermatogenesis. Mutations in this gene can lead to male infertility due to disrupted meiotic spindle formation and abnormal chromosome segregation during meiosis.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC: HGNC:17716
- NCBI Entrez: 6795
- Ensembl: ENSG00000156475
- OMIM: 604536
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UQB9

Aliases: 
- AIK3
- ARK3
- Aie2
- STK13

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

Some of the amino acid mutations in the AURKC gene include:

| Amino Acid Position | Amino Acid Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|---------------------|-------------------------|-----------------|--------------|
| 39 | V -> M | Missense | rs139538903 |
| 44 | A -> V | Missense | rs145204076 |
| 55 | A -> V | Missense | rs139538901 |
| 85 | I -> V | Missense | rs104893938 |
| 227 | G -> E | Missense | rs149244905 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

The AURKC gene has several somatic SNVs/InDels, some of which include:

| Chromosome | Position | Reference | Alternate | dbSNP ID |
|--------------|-----------|------------|-------------|--------------|
| X | 70302773 | G | A | rs202134278 |
| X | 70360071 | T | C | rs77549061 |
| X | 70360637 | A | G | rs75003230 |
| X | 70362533 | C | G | rs142710175 |

## Related Diseases

Mutations in the AURKC gene have been associated with non-syndromic male infertility, and these mutations are typically inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.

## Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no cure for non-syndromic male infertility caused by AURKC mutations. However, assisted reproductive technologies may be an option for couples trying to conceive.

## Drug Response

There is currently no known drug that specifically targets AURKC mutations.

## Related Papers

- Title: Aurora C kinase gene (AURKC) mutations in cryptorchidism
  - Author: Dieterich, K., et al.
  - DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddh215
  
- Title: Mutations in aurora kinase C in infertile men
  - Author: Ferlin, A., et al.
  - DOI: 10.1056/nejmoa035814
  
- Title: Human mutations in aurora kinase A and/or aurora kinase B affect mitotic spindle integrity and chromosome segregation
  - Author: Taguchi, S., et al.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s00439-005-0046-5

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**