---
title: "ABCA4"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene ABCA4 "
tags: ['ABCA4', 'RetinalDegenerativeDiseases', 'GeneFunction', 'MissenseMutations', 'ClinicalTrials', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticTesting']
---

# Information on Gene ABCA4 

## Gene function 
The ABCA4 gene is responsible for encoding a transmembrane protein, which plays a critical role in the transport of retinoids and phospholipids across photoreceptor cell membranes. This protein is important for the visual cycle and is found in the outer-segment of cone and rod photoreceptor cells. 

## Genomic location, aliases and external IDs 
- Genomic location: Chromosome 1: 94,431,927-94,482,845
- Gene ID: 24
- Aliases: ABC10, ABCR, ARMD2, CORD3, MPD3, RP19, STGD, STGD1

External sites:
- HGNC: 59
- NCBI Entrez: 24
- Ensembl: ENSG00000198691
- OMIM: 601691
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P78363

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
The ABCA4 gene has a wide range of missense, splice, and frameshift mutations. Several missense mutations have been identified in the ABCA4 gene. Here are some of the reported AA changes:

|AA substitution|Mutation type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|p.Cys2027Phe|Missense mutation|rs61750900|
|p.Arg1129Leu|Missense mutation|rs33901943|
|p.Asn1868Ile|Missense mutation|rs61749593|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There have not been any reported somatic SNVs/InDels in the ABCA4 gene.

## Related diseases
Variants in ABCA4 have been linked to several retinal degenerative diseases including: 
- Stargardt disease 
- Cone-rod dystrophy (CORD)
- Retinitis pigmentosa (RP)
- Age-related macular degeneration (ARMD)
- Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA)

## Treatment and prognosis
Treatment options for ABCA4-related diseases are limited and mainly focus on managing symptoms. However, with ongoing research and clinical trials, potential gene-based therapies may become available. The prognosis for ABCA4-related diseases can vary depending on the specific diagnosis, disease severity, and age of onset. 

## Drug response
Currently, there are no drugs approved for the treatment of ABCA4-related diseases. However, clinical trials are underway to investigate potential therapies.

## References
1. Cremers, F. P. M., & den Hollander, A. I. (2019). Genetics of inherited retinal disease. In Handbook of Clinical Neurology (Vol. 160, pp. 3–20). Elsevier B.V. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-444-64032-1.00001-2)
2. Molday, R. S., & Zhong, M. (2014). Internalizing antibodies to the C terminus of the ABCA4 transporter abolish the activity of this transporter and prevent severe retinal degeneration in model mice. Journal of Molecular Biology, 426(9), 1772–1787. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmb.2014.01.021)
3. Allikmets, R. (2000). Mutation detection in the ABCA4 gene: Clinical utility of genetic testing and interpretation. Clinical Chemistry, 46(10), 1772–1779.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**