---
title: "PTPN6"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene PTPN6"
tags: ['PTPN6', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'ImmuneRegulation', 'SHP1', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'ALPS']
---

## Information about Gene PTPN6

### Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

- **Genetic Position:** PTPN6 gene is located on chromosome 12 at the position 12q24.11.

- **Pathology:** Mutations in the PTPN6 gene have been associated with immune dysregulation disorders such as Autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS) and Rheumatoid Arthritis.

- **Function:** PTPN6 gene encodes protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 6 or SHP-1. This protein is involved in regulating intracellular signaling pathways by dephosphorylating tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins. SHP-1 plays a critical role in controlling immune cell functions such as T-cell and B-cell receptor signaling, cytokine and chemokine receptor signaling, and antigen presentation.

### Gene Identification Details

- **External IDs:** 
  - HGNC: 9642
  - NCBI Entrez: 5777
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000171862
  - OMIM: 176885
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P29350

- **Aliases:** SHP-1, SH-PTP1, HCP, PTP-1C

### AA Mutation and dbSNP ID

- **AA Mutation List:** 
  - p.Ala279Thr
  - p.Arg34Ter
  - p.Arg221Gln
  - p.Arg36Cys
  - p.Ala106Val
  - p.Leu415Arg
  - p.Ile89Val 
  - p.Arg34Cys
  - p.Leu272Pro

- **Mutation Type:** Missense, Nonsense, and Frameshift mutations.

- **dbSNP ID:** rs587779480, rs267608542, rs121918333, rs121918334, rs199518915, rs199518919, rs199518920, rs121918335, rs782406827.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- No Somatic SNV/InDel data is available for the PTPN6 gene in dbSNP.

### Related Diseases

- Autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome(ALPS)
- Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
- Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE)
- Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD)

### Treatment and Prognosis

- Treatment and prognosis differ based on the disease-associated with PTPN6 mutations. For Autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS), Abraxane, and Biospecifitc drugs are given. 

### Drug Response

- SHP1 inhibitors show potential in the treatment of immune dysregulation disorders like ALPS and RA.

### Related Papers

- **Subject, Author Name, DOI links to related papers**
  - "SHP-1 and SHP-2 in T cells: two phosphatases functioning at many levels." 
    - Authors: Lorenz U. 
    - DOI: 10.1002/eji.201141947

  - "SHP-1 in Cell Signaling and Disease." 
    - Authors: Shultz L.D. 
    - DOI: 10.3233/BLC-160073

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**