---
title: "SAGE1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SAGE1"
tags: ['SAGE1', 'Cancer', 'Biomarker', 'Immunotherapy', 'GeneExpression', 'CellularProcesses', 'MaleGermCells', 'BladderCancer']
---

# Information about Gene SAGE1

## Genetic Position
Gene SAGE1 is located on chromosome Xq28, starting from position 150,028,753 to position 150,030,764.

## Pathology
Research has shown that SAGE1 gene expression is associated with various types of cancers, such as lung cancer, melanoma, sarcoma, and bladder cancer. Aberrant expression of SAGE1 is linked to tumor progression and metastasis.

## Function
SAGE1 is involved in the regulation of various cellular processes, such as cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis. Moreover, it is crucial for the normal development of male germ cells. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 10503 
- NCBI Entrez: 50802 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000101981.12 
- OMIM: 300261 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H6U6
- Aliases: CT5.1, D31S250E

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are no reported mutations in the SAGE1 gene available in dbSNP.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels in the SAGE1 gene available in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
Aberrant expression of SAGE1 is associated with various types of cancers, such as lung cancer, melanoma, sarcoma, and bladder cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are currently no drugs or treatments targeting the SAGE1 gene. However, it may serve as a potential target for immunotherapy in certain cancers.

## Drug Response
There is no information available on drug response related to the SAGE1 gene.

## Related Papers
- Subject: SAGE1: a biomarker and immunotherapeutic target in cancer
  - Author: Kageyama S, Ikeda H, Miyahara Y, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1080/2162402x.2016.1235534
- Subject: SAGE1, a tumor-specific antigen, as a potential target for immunotherapy in bladder cancer
  - Author: Tobinai K, Shimoyama M, Inoue K, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/cncr.28259

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**