---
title: "SPATA31C1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene SPATA31C1"
tags: ['SPATA31C1', 'MaleFertility', 'SpermSpecificProtein', 'GeneticLocation', 'Function', 'RelatedPapers', 'NoDiseaseAssociation', 'LimitedInformation']
---

## Information about gene SPATA31C1

### Genetic position
The SPATA31C1 gene is located on chromosome 5 at the q21.2 position.

### Pathology
There is limited information available about the pathology associated with the SPATA31C1 gene.

### Function
The SPATA31C1 gene encodes for a sperm-specific protein that is involved in male fertility.

### External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
- Gene ID: 440296
- Genomic Location: Chr5q21.2
- Aliases: CT54, SPATA31C-TESTIS, C5orf56
- HGNC ID: 25648
- NCBI Entrez ID: 440296
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000164396
- OMIM ID: none available
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: A6NDG6


### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
Limited information is available about AA mutation list and mutation type for SPATA31C1 gene. There are no known dbSNP IDs available at this time.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Limited information is available about somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID for SPATA31C1 gene.

### Related Disease
There are no known diseases associated with the SPATA31C1 gene at this time.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no known treatment or prognosis information available for the SPATA31C1 gene.

### Drug Response
Limited information is available about drug response associated with the SPATA31C1 gene.

### Related Papers
- Bao, J., Tang, C., Li, J., & Zhang, W. (2017). Comparative analysis of testis-specific spermatogenic genes among multiple mammalian species. BMC genomics, 18(1), 1-18. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12864-016-3476-z)
- Hwang, J. Y., Mannowetz, N., Zhang, Y., Everley, R. A., Gygi, S. P., Bewersdorf, J., ... & Lishko, P. V. (2019). Dual sensing of physiologic pH and calcium by EFCAB9 regulates sperm motility. Cell, 177(6), 1480-1494. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2019.05.026.)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**