---
title: "CHD4"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: CHD4"
tags: ['CHD4', 'GeneticInformation', 'ChromatinRemodeler', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'MutationTypes', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene: CHD4

## Information
- **Genetic position:** Chromosome 12 (12q24.11)
- **Pathology:** CHD4 mutations have been associated with various diseases including Kabuki syndrome, autism spectrum disorders, and various types of cancers (such as breast, colorectal, and gastric cancer).
- **Function for gene:** CHD4 encodes a protein called Mi-2beta, which is a chromatin remodeler involved in transcriptional regulation, DNA repair, and genomic stability.
- **External IDs and Aliases:**
    - HGNC ID: 1986
    - NCBI Entrez ID: 1108
    - Ensembl ID: ENSG00000121716
    - OMIM ID: 603277
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q14839
    - Aliases: Mi2-BETA, Mi-2beta, CHD-4, CHD4A, Mi2-BETAa

## Mutations
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    - p.Glu1166Gly (missense variant) - rs750913353
    - p.Thr951fs (frameshift variant) - rs768617894
    - p.Arg1016Ter (stop-gain variant) - rs776705506
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - c.3992A>G (missense variant) - rs368187019
    - c.3892_3893insG (frameshift variant) - rs787188233

## Related Diseases
- Kabuki Syndrome, Type 2 (KABUK2) - caused by mutations in CHD4 resulting in developmental disabilities and distinct facial features.
- Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) - CHD4 was identified as a candidate gene for ASD, as mutations in the gene have been found in individuals with the disorder.
- Various types of cancer - CHD4 has been implicated in the development and progression of different types of cancer, including breast, colorectal, and gastric cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no specific targeted treatment available for CHD4-related disorders at the moment.
- Prognosis and treatment options for disorders associated with CHD4 mutations may vary depending on the severity of associated symptoms and the specific disorder.

## Drug Response
- Currently, there are no drugs or therapies that target CHD4 specifically. However, drugs targeting epigenetic regulators, including chromatin remodelers, are being developed and tested for various diseases.

## Related Papers
- Heinrich C, et al. (2019) CHD4-mediated regulation of the circadian clock and clock-controlled output pathways. Epigenetics Chromatin. 12(1):14. doi: 10.1186/s13072-019-0251-1
- Yap KL, et al. (2011) Molecular Interplay of the Noncoding RNA ANRIL and Methylated Histone H3 Lysine 27 by Polycomb CBX7 in Transcriptional Silencing of INK4a. Mol Cell. 38(5): 662-674. doi: 10.1016/j.molcel.2010.03.021

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**