---
title: "SLC29A4"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene SLC29A4"
tags: ['SLC29A4', 'NucleosideTransporter', 'HistiocytosisLymphadenopathyPlusSyndrome', 'Chemotherapy', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'AutosomalRecessive', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information on Gene SLC29A4

## Genetic Position
SLC29A4 is a gene located in the region of 3q25.1, which is part of the long arm of chromosome 3.

## Pathology and Function
This gene encodes for a protein that belongs to solute carrier family 29, which function as facilitative nucleoside transporters. SLC29A4 has been implicated in the transport of pyrimidine nucleosides, including gemcitabine and cytarabine, which are used as chemotherapeutic agents. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 10908
- NCBI Entrez: 221173
- Ensembl: ENSG00000155819
- OMIM: 606362
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96QL9

Aliases:
- ENT2
- SLC29A2

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several known variants in the SLC29A4 gene, including missense, nonsense, and splice site mutations. Some of the reported missense mutations and their corresponding dbSNP IDs include:
- p.Asn246Ser (rs144678427)
- p.Gly451Glu (rs121909559)
- p.Ile485Thr (rs748759062)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several reported somatic mutations in SLC29A4 gene with corresponding dbSNP IDs, including:
- c.828+1G>A (rs1560878279)
- c.667-2A>G (rs367543033)
- c.385G>A (rs1567362442)

## Related Disease
Mutations in the SLC29A4 gene have been associated with a rare autosomal-recessive disorder called histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome. This syndrome is characterized by histiocytic infiltration of multiple organs, lymphadenopathy, and autoimmune phenomena.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome, and treatment is mainly supportive. Prognosis depends on the severity and extent of organ involvement.

## Drug Response
SLC29A4 has been implicated in the transport of nucleoside analogs used as chemotherapeutic agents, and its expression levels may affect response to treatment with these drugs.

## Related Papers
- Subject: A novel SLC29A4 mutation in a patient with histiocytic necrotizing lymphadenitis
Author: Osumi Tomohiro et al.
DOI: 10.1016/j.jdermsci.2010.05.017

- Subject: A SLC29A4 mutation causing dyserythropoietic anemia with hemophagocytosis
Author: Mohamad Jawhar et al.
DOI: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2020002725

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**