---
title: "EFNB1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: EFNB1"
tags: ['EFNB1', 'CraniofrontonasalSyndrome', 'CellSignaling', 'DevelopmentalDisorder', 'GeneticMutation', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis', 'BiomedicalResearch']
---

## Gene: EFNB1

### Genetic Position
- Chromosome: Xq13.1 
- Start position: 71,080,736 bp 
- End position: 71,160,390 bp

### Pathology
Mutations in EFNB1 are associated with craniofrontonasal syndrome, an X-linked developmental disorder characterized by craniofacial and digital anomalies, as well as other developmental abnormalities such as skeletal malformations and intellectual disability.

### Function
EFNB1 encodes for a transmembrane protein, Ephrin-B1, that is involved in cell-to-cell signaling and regulates cell migration, adhesion, and differentiation during embryonic development.

### External IDs, Aliases and Sites
- HGNC: 3296
- NCBI Entrez: 1947
- Ensembl: ENSG00000102054
- OMIM: 300035
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P98172
- Other aliases: CFNS, HTX2

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.392G>A (p.Arg131Gln) with dbSNP ID rs104894536
- c.416C>T (p.Ala139Val) with dbSNP ID rs397514680
- c.686G>A (p.Arg229Gln) with dbSNP ID rs104894537

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP IDs for EFNB1.

### Related Disease
- Craniofrontonasal Syndrome (CFNS)

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure or curative treatment for CFNS. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive, depending on the manifestation and severity of symptoms.

### Drug Response
There is no known drug response information for EFNB1 mutations in CFNS.

### Related Papers
- Subject: The spectrum of EFNB1-associated phenotypes: from craniofrontonasal syndrome to undifferentiated connective tissue disease.
  - Author: Babul-Hirji R, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.37318

- Subject: Identification of a novel mutation in the EFNB1 gene in a Chinese family with craniofrontonasal syndrome.
  - Author: Hou Y, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1111/cge.12488

- Subject: EFNB1 mutation correlated with craniofrontonasal dysplasia phenotype in a Chinese family
  - Author: Yuan Z, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.38381

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**