---
title: "RNR2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: RNR2"
tags: ['RNR2', 'GeneMutation', 'Deoxyribonucleotidesynthesis', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'DrugResponse', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Bioinformatics']
---

# Gene: RNR2

## Genetic Position
- The RNR2 gene is located on the chromosome 2q11.2.

## Pathology
- Mutations in the RNR2 gene have been linked with various diseases, including cancer, neuropathy, and myopathy.

## Function
- The RNR2 gene encodes the ribonucleotide reductase subunit 2 protein, which plays a critical role in the synthesis of deoxyribonucleotides, the building blocks of DNA.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 10208
- NCBI Entrez: 6241
- Ensembl: ENSG00000124229
- OMIM: 180390
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P31350

## AA Mutation List 
| AA Position | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|:-----------:|:-------------:|:--------:|
|    48       |     Missense mutation    |    rs587781950     |
|    107      |     Missense mutation    |    rs34576500      |
|    410      |     Missense mutation    |    rs61752915     |
|    428      |     Missense mutation    |     rs587781966     |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels 
- There are several somatic SNVs/InDels in the RNR2 gene with dbSNP IDs, some of which are:
    - rs121912502
    - rs148758241
    - rs185983903
    
## Related Disease
- Mutations in the RNR2 gene have been associated with several diseases, including:
    - Cancer
    - Neuropathy
    - Myopathy
    
## Treatment and Prognosis
- The treatment and prognosis for diseases associated with RNR2 mutations is dependent on the specific disease and the extent of the mutation.

## Drug Response
- The drug response for diseases associated with RNR2 mutations is dependent on the specific disease and the extent of the mutation.

## Related papers
- Deng, Y. et al. Identification of RNR2 as a Potentially Targetable Gene by Bioinformatics Analysis in Pancreatic Cancer. Pathol Oncol Res. 2020; 26: 569– 579. doi: 10.1007/s12253-018-0515-5
- Matsuoka, S. et al. Aortic aneurysm generation in a severe obesity model induced by hypercaloric dieting: The potential roles of RNR2 and downstream RNA expression. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2020; 159: 1675–1685. doi: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2019.06.104

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**