---
title: "PET100"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PET100"
tags: ['GenePET100', 'LeighSyndrome', 'MitochondrialRespiration', 'MissenseMutation', 'Prognosis', 'SupportiveCare', 'NCBIEntrez', 'Ensembl']
---

# Information about Gene PET100

## Genetic Position and Function

- **Genetic Position:** The gene PET100 is located on the long arm of chromosome 19 at position 19p13.3.
- **Pathology:** The mutation in the PET100 gene is associated with Leigh Syndrome, which is a rare neurological disorder that affects the central nervous system.
- **Function:** The PET100 gene encodes for a protein that helps in the assembly of cytochrome c oxidase, an enzyme essential for the electron transport chain in mitochondrial respiration.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Links

- **External IDs:** 
  - HGNC ID: HGNC:25620
  - NCBI Entrez: 79012
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000105497
  - OMIM: 614926
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96C11

## Mutations and Variation

- **AA Mutation List:** The following are the amino acid mutations reported in the PET100 gene:
  - p.Ala113Thr
  - p.Ile98Val
- **Mutation Type:** missense
- **dbSNP ID:** rs200163526, rs3216936

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:** There is no reported somatic mutation in the PET100 gene.

## Related Diseases

- **Related Diseases:** Leigh Syndrome

## Treatment and Prognosis

- **Treatment:** There is currently no cure for Leigh Syndrome. Treatment is focused on supportive care, including medication for symptom management.
- **Prognosis:** The prognosis for Leigh Syndrome varies, but most people with this disorder do not survive beyond their teenage years.

## Drug Response

- **Drug Response:** There is currently no known drug response for Leigh Syndrome.

## Related Papers

- **Subject:** Identification of a Homozygous Missense Mutation in PET100 in a Patient with Leigh Syndrome.
- **Author Name:** Baertling, Fabian et al. 
- **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2017.04.014)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**