---
title: "RASA1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene RASA1"
tags: ['RASA1', 'CapillaryMalformationArteriovenousMalformation', 'GTPase', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'VascularAnomalies']
---

## Gene RASA1

### Genetic Position:
The RASA1 gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 5 (5q14.3).

### Pathology:
The RASA1 gene is associated with the development of Capillary Malformation-Arteriovenous Malformation syndrome (CM-AVM). Individuals with mutations in this gene may display various symptoms such as skin discoloration, arteriovenous malformations, and occasionally, hemorrhage.

### Function:
The RASA1 gene encodes for a protein called Ras GTPase-activating protein 1 (RASA1) which is involved in the modulation of cell signalling pathways by negatively regulating the activity of small GTPase proteins such as Ras and Rap1.

### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 9838
- NCBI Entrez: 5921
- Ensembl: ENSG00000152952
- OMIM: 139150
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P20936
- Aliases: CM-AVM, CMAVM, GAP1, p120GAP.

### AA mutation and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
Some of the non-synonymous mutations in RASA1 gene include:
- c.727C>G (p.Asn243Lys) rs1064793579
- c.1510C>T (p.Ala504Val) rs886043477
- c.1844G>A (p.Cys615Tyr) rs1064795022.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There is no curated information on somatic mutations for RASA1 gene.

### Related disease:
Mutations in RASA1 gene have been associated with Capillary Malformation-Arteriovenous Malformation syndrome (CM-AVM). 

### Treatment and prognosis:
There is no available cure for CM-AVM syndrome. However, treatment options may include surgery, laser therapy, and embolization therapy. The prognosis for CM-AVM patients may depend on the severity of the symptoms, and early diagnosis and treatment can improve outcomes.

### Drug response:
There is no known specific drug for targeted treatment of CM-AVM. However, medication may be administered to alleviate symptoms such as pain and inflammation.

### Related papers:
- Wooderchak-Donahue WL, McDonald J, O'Fallon B, Upton PD, Li W, Roman BL, Young S, Plant P, Fülöp GT, Langa C, Morrell NW, Botella LM, Bernabeu C, Stevenson DA, Runo JR, Marcovina SM, Hammer T, Novel mutations in RASA1 are associated with capillary malformation-arteriovenous malformation (CM-AVM). Am J Hum Genet. 2012 Mar 9;90(3):540-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2012.01.008. PMID: 22387016; PMCID: PMC3309183.
- Revencu N, Boon LM, Mulliken JB, Enjolras O, Cordisco MR, Burrows PE, Clapuyt P, Hammer F, Dubois J, Baselga E, Brizard CP, Child A, Comi AM, Delgado A, Drouet L, Dupont J, Fraitag S, Labbé D, Martorell L, McKenzie J, Morren MA, Paller AS, Petit F, Phan A, Quere I, Rieu P, Saurat JH, Salhi A, Thomas KT, Weibel L, et al. Parkes Weber syndrome, vein of Galen aneurysmal malformation, and other fast-flow vascular anomalies are caused by RASA1 mutations. Hum Mutat. 2013 Feb;34(2):163-71. doi: 10.1002/humu.22227. PMID: 22965790.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**