---
title: "RFT1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: RFT1"
tags: ['RFT1', 'CongenitalDisorderofGlycosylation', 'Glycoproteins', 'MissenseMutation', 'SupportiveTreatment', 'VariablePrognosis', 'NoCure', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene: RFT1

### Pathology

RFT1 gene is associated with Congenital Disorder of Glycosylation, Type In. It is a rare genetic disorder that affects the ability of the body to produce a certain type of glycoprotein. The symptoms of this disorder usually appear in infancy, and they include developmental delay, weak muscle tone, and abnormal eye movements.

### Function

RFT1 encodes for an enzyme that is involved in the transport of specific proteins to the Golgi apparatus of the cell. These proteins are later modified by enzymes in the Golgi, resulting in the production of glycoproteins. Glycoproteins are important for several cellular processes, such as cell signaling and immune response.

### External IDs and Genomic location

- **HGNC:** 10082
- **NCBI Entrez:** 5988
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000131160
- **OMIM:** 603899
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q9H4I9

The RFT1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 3 (3q21.3).

**Aliases:** CDG-1N.

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

There are several reported AA mutations in the RFT1 gene associated with Congenital Disorder of Glycosylation, Type In. These include missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations.

One example of a missense mutation is the c.719 A>G (p.Q240R) mutation, rs387906860.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are currently no known somatic SNVs/InDels in the RFT1 gene.

### Related disease

Congenital Disorder of Glycosylation, Type In is the only known disease associated with the RFT1 gene.

### Treatment and prognosis

There is currently no cure for Congenital Disorder of Glycosylation, Type In. Treatment options are mostly supportive and aim to manage the symptoms of the disease. Prognosis for this disorder is highly variable and depends on the severity of the symptoms.

### Drug response

There are no known drugs specifically designed to target the RFT1 gene or Congenital Disorder of Glycosylation, Type In. However, some drugs used to manage the symptoms of the disease may include antibiotics, antiepileptics, and physical therapy.

### Related papers

- **Subject:** Mutations in RFT1 gene are associated with congenital disorder of hypoglycosylation type In.
- **Authors:** Ng BG, Freeze HH.
- **DOI:** 10.1016/B978-0-444-59602-4.00015-6
- **Journal:** Handb Clin Neurol. 2013;113:1803-6.

- **Subject:** Congenital disorders of glycosylation.
- **Authors:** Freeze HH, Eklund EA, Ng BG, Patterson MC.
- **DOI:** 10.1101/cshperspect.a005595
- **Journal:** Cold Spring Harb Perspect Biol. 2012 Feb 1;4(2):a005595.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**