---
title: "CDKN1C"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene CDKN1C"
tags: ['CDKN1C', 'BeckwithWiedemannSyndrome', 'CellCycleRegulation', 'GeneticMutation', 'OvergrowthDisorder', 'Prognosis', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'GenotypePhenotypeCorrelation']
---

## Information about Gene CDKN1C

### Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
- CDKN1C gene is located at the chromosome 11p15.5.
- Mutations in the CDKN1C gene can lead to Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS), a rare overgrowth disorder.
- CDKN1C gene plays an essential role in cell cycle regulation by encoding the protein p57KIP2, known as a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. p57KIP2 inhibits cell cycle progression by regulating cyclin-dependent kinases.

### Gene Information
- External IDs for gene and genomic location: 
    - HGNC: 1784 
    - NCBI Entrez: 1028 
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000117318 
    - OMIM: 600856 
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P49918
- Aliases: BWCR, BWS, KIP2, WBS, p57, and others.

### Mutation Information
- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID: 
    - c.424C>T (p.Arg142Ter) - rs104894469 
    - c.397C>T (p.Arg133Cys) - rs118203998
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: None reported.

### Related Diseases
- Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS): a rare overgrowth disorder caused by a mutation in CDKN1C. Clinical manifestations include macrosomia, abdominal wall defects, macroglossia, and other symptoms.

### Treatment and Prognosis
- Treatment for BWS is symptomatic and supportive; monitoring for tumor growth is crucial.
- Prognosis for individuals with BWS varies but depends mainly on the severity of the symptoms.

### Drug Response
- Currently, no drugs are specifically designed to target the CDKN1C gene.

### Related Papers
- **Subject:** Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome and CDKN1C mutations: genotype-phenotype correlation. 
- **Author(s):** Mussa, Alessandro et al. 
- **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/humu.22800) 

- **Subject:** CDKN1C (p57) mutations in fetal and childhood tumors.
- **Author(s):** Sanz-Garcia, Marta et al.
- **DOI link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/gcc.20747)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**