---
title: "NBEA"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene NBEA "
tags: ['NBEA', 'Neurobeachin', 'SynapticPlasticity', 'IntellectualDisability', 'AutismSpectrumDisorders', 'Epilepsy', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticAssociationStudy']
---

# Information about Gene NBEA 

Gene NBEA (neurobeachin) is located on the long arm of chromosome 13 (13q13.2) and encodes a protein called neurobeachin. NBEA is primarily expressed in the brain and is involved in the regulation of synapse formation and plasticity. It plays a crucial role in the formation and maintenance of dendritic spines and the regulation of dendritic trafficking. 

## Function for gene
The NBEA gene regulates neuron growth and activity, synaptic plasticity, and plays a role in regulating gene expression via neuron-specific chromatin remodeling. It also plays a role in neuronal viability and is a candidate gene for intellectual disability (ID) and autism spectrum disorders (ASDs).

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- **HGNC**: 7649
- **NCBI Entrez**: 26960
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000136157
- **OMIM**: 608145
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: Q8WZA2

Aliases: KIAA1420, MGC120880, BEACH, NBEA1 

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
Here are some of the AA mutations found in the NBEA gene with their mutation type and dbSNP ID:
- p.Arg1290Pro (missense variant) rs143988311
- p.Arg1316Cys (missense variant) rs372910021

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels on the NBEA gene, some of which are:
- rs334391 
- rs45523660
- rs147741992

## Related disease
NBEA has been linked to several neurological disorders, including intellectual disability, autism, and epilepsy.

## Treatment and prognosis 
No specific treatment or cure exists for NBEA-related disorders. However, symptom management is available for patients with intellectual disability, autism, or epilepsy, including early intervention programs, behavioral and social skills therapies, and antiepileptic drugs.

## Drug response
There is limited information on drug response and NBEA. However, studies suggest that some of the neurotransmitters that are affected by the NBEA gene, such as dopamine, glutamate, and serotonin, could be targeted to alleviate NBEA-associated symptoms.

## Related papers
- **Subject**: "Genetic association study of NBEA in autism spectrum disorder" 
- **Authors**: Turner, T. N., et al. 
- **DOI links**: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2015.09.015

- **Subject**: "Investigation of the Molecular Mechanisms Underlying Neurobeachin's Role in Synaptic Function and Neuropsychiatric Disease" 
- **Authors**: Jenabian, N. & Bathala, S. 
- **DOI links**: 10.3390/ijms20194771

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**