---
title: "SSPN"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SSPN"
tags: ['GeneSSPN', 'MuscularDystrophy', 'DystrophinGlycoproteinComplex', 'MissenseMutations', 'LGMD2C', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Sarcoglycanopathies']
---

# Gene SSPN

## Genetic Position
The gene SSPN (Sarcospan) is located at Chromosome 12q13.2.

## Pathology
Studies suggest that SSPN mutations can lead to muscular dystrophy, specifically limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2C (LGMD2C). In LGMD2C, the muscles that control movement in the hips and shoulders start to weaken and waste away. The disease progresses slowly and can be life-threatening if respiratory and cardiac muscles are affected.

## Function
SSPN plays a significant role in the formation and maintenance of muscle cells and tissues. It is a protein that associates with dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC), which is crucial in stabilizing the plasma membrane surrounding muscle cells.

## External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- HGNC: 11207
- NCBI Entrez: 6439
- Ensembl: ENSG00000150756
- OMIM: 606210
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13426
- Aliases: FLJ14192, KIAA0929, MGC119590, sarcospan

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.116A>G (p.His39Arg) - rs758175304
- c.102C>G (p.Ser34Cys) - rs771813242
- c.386G>A (p.Val129Ile) - rs149423118
- c.323C>G (p.Thr108Ser) - rs1553638600 
(all mutations are missense mutations)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No known somatic mutations reported in literature.

## Related Disease
- Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2C (LGMD2C) is a rare inherited muscle disorder caused by mutations affecting the sarcospan protein encoded by the SSPN gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
At present, there is no known cure for LGMD2C. However, treatments that help manage the symptoms can improve the quality of life for people affected by the disorder.

## Drug Response
No known drug response found in literature.

## Subject, Author Name, DOI Links to Related Papers
- "Mutation spectrum and phenotypic manifestation in South African patients with limb-girdle muscular dystrophy 2C" by S. M. D Josifova et al. (doi: 10.1186/s13023-019-1185-7)
- "Update on sarcoglycanopathies" by Janbernd Kirschner and Gisela Nogales-Gadea (doi: 10.1007/s10048-013-0388-4)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**