---
title: "CLCN2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene CLCN2"
tags: ['CLCN2', 'ChlorideChannels', 'NeuronalExcitability', 'FamilialEpilepsy', 'AntiepilepticDrugs', 'DrugResistance', 'Mutation', 'SeizureControl']
---

## Gene CLCN2

- **Function**: The gene CLCN2 encodes for a protein that belongs to the family of voltage-gated chloride channels and plays a role in the regulation of neuronal excitability.

- **Genomic location**: Chromosome 3, position 101,753,249 - 101,836,715. 
- **Aliases**: CLC2, CLC2A, hClC-2.

- **External IDs**:
  - HGNC: 2042
  - NCBI Entrez Gene: 1184
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000121798
  - OMIM: 600570
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NY25

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**:
  - p.Gly23Glu - Missense - rs121909273
  - p.Asn297Ser - Missense - rs768548181
  - p.Arg565Cys - Missense - rs796066846

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**:
  - None reported

- **Related disease**: Mutations in the CLCN2 gene have been linked to familial epilepsy with variable foci, a rare genetic disorder characterized by recurrent seizures that may originate from different brain regions. 

- **Treatment and prognosis**: Treatment for familial epilepsy with variable foci usually involves the use of antiepileptic drugs such as sodium valproate, carbamazepine, or lamotrigine. Prognosis varies depending on the severity and frequency of seizures, but with proper treatment, most patients can achieve good seizure control.

- **Drug response**: Mutations in the CLCN2 gene have been associated with drug resistance to certain antiepileptic medications, such as carbamazepine.

- **Related papers**:
  - Subject: "Clinical and molecular genetic features of benign familial infantile epilepsy in South Korea." 
  - Author: Choi J, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.braindev.2016.04.001

  - Subject: "Functional molecular genetic analysis of two de novo CLCN2 mutations in Idiopathic Generalized Epilepsy." 
  - Author: Pang T, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1111/jnc.13885

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**