---
title: "AGA"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene AGA"
tags: ['GeneAGA', 'Aspartylglucosaminidase', 'AGU', 'Glycosaminoglycans', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Research']
---

# Gene AGA

## General Information
- AGA is the gene symbol for Aspartylglucosaminidase
- The genomic location for AGA is 4q34.3
- The aliases for AGA are: ASPG, NAGA, AGAU, AGAL



## Function
- AGA encodes aspartylglucosaminidase, which is a lysosomal enzyme involved in the catabolism of N-linked glycoproteins. This enzyme removes the aspartic acid from the N-acetylglucosamine-aspargine residue present in glycoproteins and plays a crucial role in the breakdown of glycoproteins.



## External IDs and Sites
- HGNC ID: HGNC:288
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 175
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000106697
- OMIM ID: 613228
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P20933



## Mutations
-  The AA (amino acid) mutations identified for AGA are listed in dbSNP.
-  An example of an AA mutation is p.Glu527Lys (rs104894147).

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- No significant somatic SNVs/InDels have been identified to date.

## Related Diseases
- Aspartylglucosaminuria (AGU) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by a deficiency of aspartylglucosaminidase. Mutations in AGA gene result in the AGU disorder which is characterized by the accumulation of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) in various tissues leading to various symptoms such as mental retardation.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no cure for AGU. Treatment is symptomatic to manage the symptoms and complications caused by GAG accumulation.
- Prognosis is variable as severity varies greatly between patients.

## Drug Response
- There is no significant drug response identified so far for AGU.

## Related Research Articles
- **Title:** "Mutation update for the AGA gene in aspartylglucosaminuria.". 
  - **Authors:** Mononen, I., Kristo, P., & Aula, P. 
  - **DOI:** 10.1002/ajmg.a.30257
- **Title:** "Aspartylglucosaminuria: biochemical and molecular genetic studies of severe and attenuated phenotypes." 
  - **Authors:** Khedr, M., Elmonem, M. A., Abbas, H., Zaki, M. S., & Abdel Rahman, A. M.
  - **DOI:** 10.1186/s13023-020-01407-5

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**