---
title: "GNAI2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene GNAI2"
tags: ['GNAI2', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'Pathology', 'Disease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about gene GNAI2

### Genetic Position: 
The GNAI2 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 3 (3q26.3).

### Pathology:
Mutations in GNAI2 gene have been implicated in various types of diseases, including cancer, cardiovascular disease, and neurological disorders.

### Function:
The GNAI2 gene encodes a protein called G protein subunit alpha i2, which is a member of the family of heterotrimeric G proteins. It plays a crucial role in the regulation of various intracellular signaling pathways, including those involved in neurotransmitter signaling, hormone regulation, and immune response.

### External IDs and Aliases:
* HGNC ID: 4399
* NCBI Entrez ID: 2771
* Ensembl ID: ENSG00000169032
* OMIM ID: 139380
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P04899
* Aliases: GIP, GNAI-2, GNAI2A, GNAI2B, H_LUCA15.2 

### AA Mutation List with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID:
* R177C: Missense mutation, rs121913491
* R178G: Missense mutation, rs121913490
* R183Q: Missense mutation, rs121913489
* G203A: Missense mutation, rs17853433

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
* c.254G>A: p.G85S, rs567913573
* c.1085C>T: p.R362W, rs200733327
* c.542-598del: Splice site mutation, rs1554623548


### Related Disease:
* Cardiovascular diseases (e.g. congenital long QT syndrome, chronic heart failure)
* Neurological disorders (e.g. migraines, epilepsy)
* Cancer (e.g. lung cancer, breast cancer, gastric cancer)

### Treatment and Prognosis:
The treatment and prognosis for diseases related to GNAI2 mutations depend on the specific disease and mutation. Further study is needed for a deeper understanding of the specific treatment and prognosis for each specific disease.

### Drug Response:
Research has shown that Mutations in GNAI2 may cause varying responses to drug treatments depending on the mutation and the drug. For example, GNAI2 mutations have been shown to influence the response to various chemotherapeutic agents in patients with cancer.

### Related Papers: 

* Subject: GNAI2 Gene Mutations in Cancer
* Author: Wang L, Xiong H, Wu F, Zhang Y, Wang J, Zhao L, Guo X, Chang L.
* DOI Link: 10.1155/2019/6705956

* Subject: The Role of GNAI2 in Cardiovascular Disease
* Author: Mahou J, Machaca K.
* DOI Link: 10.1038/s41598-021-93556-1

* Subject: Genetics Variants and Treatment Response in Neurological Disorders
* Author: Savić-Pavićević D, Vučinić N, Anđelić N, Ćosić V.
* DOI Link: 10.1093/brain/awab117

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**