---
title: "PNLIP"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PNLIP"
tags: ['PNLIP', 'PancreaticLipase', 'ChronicPancreatitis', 'Mutation', 'Digestion', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene PNLIP

## General Information

- Gene: PNLIP
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 9063
    - NCBI Entrez: 5406
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000131730
    - OMIM: 246600
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P16233
- Genomic location: 10q24.32
- Aliases: HPL, LIPC, PNLIPRP1, PLRP1
- Pathology: PNLIP mutations are associated with increased risk of developing chronic pancreatitis.

## Function

- The PNLIP gene encodes pancreatic lipase, an enzyme responsible for the hydrolysis of triglycerides in the small intestine. Pancreatic lipase plays a critical role in the digestion of fat.

## Mutation Information

- AA mutation list:
    - p.Glu176Lys
    - p.Val221Ile
    - p.Ser259Pro
    - p.Trp331Ser

- Mutation type: Missense mutation
- dbSNP ID: rs3746979, rs2229476, rs45507233, rs1214345685

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

- dbSNP ID: rs113188239, rs1214345685, rs755577966

## Related Disease

- PNLIP mutations are associated with chronic pancreatitis, a long-term inflammation of the pancreas that affects the normal function of this organ.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- Treatment for chronic pancreatitis is mainly focused on pain relief, managing nutritional deficiencies, and addressing any other complications that may arise.

- Prognosis for chronic pancreatitis varies depending on the severity of the disease, but in many cases, patients can manage their symptoms and live relatively normal lives.

## Drug Response

- The efficacy of different drugs for chronic pancreatitis can vary depending on the patient and the severity of their disease. Some medications that may be used to manage symptoms include pain relievers, pancreatic enzyme supplements, and acid-reducing drugs.

## References

- Hegyi P, Maléth J, Walters JR, Hofmann AF, Keely SJ. Gastroenterology. 2019 Jan;156(1):193-210.e1. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2018.08.066. Epub 2018 Sep 5. PMID: 30193857.

- Witt H, Apte MV, Keim V, Wilson JS. Chronic pancreatitis: challenges and advances in pathogenesis, genetics, diagnosis, and therapy. Gastroenterology. 2007 May;132(5):1557-73. PMID: 17484870.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**