---
title: "COX6B1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene: COX6B1"
tags: ['COX6B1', 'MitochondrialDisorders', 'OxidativePhosphorylation', 'GeneticVariations', 'LeighSyndrome', 'SupportiveCare', 'ComplexIVDeficiency', 'CytochromeCOxidase']
---

### Gene: COX6B1

#### Information:

- **Genetic position**: Chromosome 19: 4,063,613-4,065,141
- **Function**: COX6B1 encodes a subunit of the cytochrome c oxidase complex which is involved in oxidative phosphorylation and is located in the inner mitochondrial membrane.
- **External IDs**: HGNC: 2222, Entrez Gene: 1338, Ensembl: ENSG00000104803, OMIM: 602646, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P14854
- **Aliases**: COX6B, COXVIb-1, CYC1, COX6B1P1

#### Mutations and Variations:

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**: There are several known missense mutations in COX6B1, including rs4147923 (I29V), rs28931293 (G11R), and rs148696976 (S12I). 
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: There are currently no known somatic mutations in COX6B1 in any cancer types.

#### Related Disease:

- COX6B1 mutations have been associated with several mitochondrial disorders, including Leigh syndrome and mitochondrial complex IV deficiency. 

#### Treatment and Prognosis:

- Treatment for COX6B1-related disorders is focused on managing symptoms and providing supportive care. Prognosis varies depending on the specific disorder and the severity of the symptoms.

#### Drug Response:

- There is currently no specific drug therapy for COX6B1-related disorders.

#### Related Papers:

- **Subject**: Variants in COX6B1 Cause Hydrops, Lactic Acidosis, Sideroblastic Anemia, and Complex I Deficiency Journal: Human Mutation DOI: 10.1002/humu.23366
- **Author**: Alston, Charlotte L et al.
- **Subject**: A Subcomplex of Cytochrome c Oxidase Regulated by Tactile Experience in Critical Periods of Mouse Visual System Journal: PNAS DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1718595115
- **Author**: Peinado-Ramón, Pilar et al.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**