---
title: "KHK"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene KHK"
tags: ['KHK', 'FructoseMetabolism', 'HereditaryFructoseIntolerance', 'Enzyme', 'MetabolicDisorder', 'DietaryManagement', 'GeneticMutation', 'dbSNP']
---

## Gene KHK

- **Function:** KHK, or ketohexokinase, is an enzyme involved in the metabolism of fructose. It catalyzes the phosphorylation of fructose to produce fructose-1-phosphate, which can then be metabolized to glucose or glycogen.
- **External IDs and Aliases:**

    - HGNC: 6369
    - NCBI Entrez: 3797
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000170458
    - OMIM: 609528
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P50053

- **AA Mutation List with dbSNP ID and Mutation Type:**

    - No AA mutations found in dbSNP.

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**

    - No somatic SNVs/InDels found in dbSNP.

- **Related Disease:** Mutations in the KHK gene are associated with hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI), an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder characterized by the inability to properly metabolize fructose. Symptoms of HFI include vomiting, abdominal pain, and hypoglycemia.
- **Treatment and Prognosis:** Currently, there is no cure for HFI, and the only treatment is a strict avoidance of fructose in the diet. With proper management, individuals with HFI can lead a normal and healthy life.
- **Drug Response:** No specific drug response information available for KHK.
- **Related Papers:**

    - Subject: Molecular basis of hereditary fructose intolerance in Italian families
      - Author: Melis R, Fumi M, Tiziana R, Schirru E, Ponzi P, Congia M, Luzzatto L
      - DOI: 10.1007/s004390050315

    - Subject: Hereditary fructose intolerance: functional study of two novel ALDOB natural variants and characterization of a novel partial gene deletion
      - Author: Giuseppe D, Simona R, Maria S, Matteo B, Maurizio V, Ester B, Luisa B, Licia G, Carlo D, Augusta F
      - DOI: 10.1007/s00439-010-0909-z

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**