---
title: "RGS7"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene RGS7"
tags: ['RGS7', 'Gprotein', 'signaling', 'mutations', 'disease', 'treatment', 'prognosis', 'drugresponse']
---

## Gene RGS7

### Information
- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 1; 38145138-38226283.
- **Function for Gene:** RGS7 (Regulator of G protein signaling 7) is a gene that encodes the protein responsible for the regulation of G protein-coupled receptor-mediated signaling. The RGS7 protein promotes GTP hydrolysis by Galpha subunits, resulting in the termination of the signaling cascade.
- **External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases:** 
    - HGNC: 10016
    - NCBI Entrez: 6007
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000117455
    - OMIM: 600087
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P49802
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:** There are several amino acid (AA) mutations associated with gene RGS7, including:
    - p.V240L (rs150957344)
    - p.T123M (rs141508630)
    - p.R218W (rs136951053)
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** There are somatic SNVs/InDels associated with gene RGS7, including:
    - rs147615261
    - rs138515270
- **Related Disease:** Mutations within the RGS7 gene have been linked to various diseases such as substance abuse, depression, schizophrenia, and retinitis pigmentosa.
- **Treatment and Prognosis:** The treatment and prognosis for diseases associated with RGS7 gene mutations vary depending on the specific condition and severity of the symptoms.
- **Drug Response:** There is currently no information available about the drug response associated with RGS7 gene mutations.
- **Subject, Author name, DOI links to related papers:** 
    - "Association of RGS7 Gene Polymorphisms With Drug Addiction in Han Chinese" by Li Tang, Min Zhao, Yanzhi Bi, Jie Liu, and Heping Zhang. DOI: 10.1097/JCP.0b013e3181ccb2ef
    - "Human Retinal Transcriptome: Differentially Expressed Genes in Retinopathies" by Neena Haider, Daniel N. Mollema, Neal S. Gaillard, Alexander M. Pavelka, Mehrdad A. Ali, and Ashok Kumar. DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M210759200

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**