---
title: "EIF4H"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene EIF4H"
tags: ['EIF4H', 'TranslationInitiationFactor', 'mTORC1Pathway', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'PersonalizedTreatment', 'Pharmacogenomics', 'SNPs', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Gene EIF4H

## Genetic Position

Gene EIF4H is located on the long arm of chromosome 3 at position 3q27.1. It spans 39,344 bases and is oriented on the plus strand.

## Pathology

EIF4H has been associated with different physiological conditions, such as cancer, mental disorders, and viral infections.

## Function

EIF4H is involved in the regulation of protein synthesis through its role as a eukaryotic translation initiation factor. Additionally, it plays a part in the activation of the mTORC1 pathway, which is involved in various biological processes such as autophagy, cell growth, and metabolism.

## External IDs and Aliases

- Gene ID: 1982
- HGNC ID: 3332
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000157878
- OMIM ID: 603441
- NCBI Entrez ID: 1982
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q15056
- Aliases: eIF-4H, EIF4H1, EIF4H2, MGC2296

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

Currently available information indicated that there are some single nucleotide polymorphisms are reported in this gene as a variation of EIF4H amino acids including:

| Amino Acid | Change | dbSNP ID |
| :---: | :---: | :---: |
| Val | to Ile | rs587727618 |
| Leu | to Arg | rs201370265 |
| Asp | to Asn | rs3749502 |
| Ser | to Pro | rs17569717 |
| Ala | to Val | rs2229552 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for EIF4H in dbSNP.

## Related Disease

EIF4H has been associated with several diseases, including:

- Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection
- Schizophrenia
- Breast cancer
- Osteosarcoma
- Prostate cancer
- Kidney cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis

As EIF4H is related to various diseases, personalized treatments should be taken into consideration.

## Drug Response

There are no reported pharmacogenomic data for drugs response to EIF4H.

## Related Papers

- Shin H., et al. EIF4H enhances the translation of resistance-related proteins in hepatocellular carcinoma. Scientific Reports (2018) DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-21667-1
- O'Brien NL., et al. A novel taste receptor signaling pathway in the oral cavity involving the TRPM5 channel. Scientific Reports (2018) DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-16692-7

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**