---
title: "SMARCAD1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: SMARCAD1"
tags: ['SMARCAD1', 'ChromatinRemodeling', 'DNARepair', 'Cancer', 'Meiosis', 'Fertility', 'TargetedTherapies', 'LiverCancer']
---

# Gene: SMARCAD1

## Genetic Position and Pathology
- SMARCAD1 is located on chromosome 4 at the position 4p15.2. 
- It is involved in chromatin remodeling and DNA repair.
- It has been found to be dysregulated in some cancers.

## Function
- SMARCAD1 functions as a chromatin remodeler and is involved in DNA repair and recombination.
- It is required for normal chiasma formation in meiosis and is essential for male fertility.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 23103
- NCBI Entrez ID: 64324
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000138674
- OMIM ID: 607072
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96BY9
- Aliases: 
    - SNF2LT
    - ISWI and ATPase family member SNF2L-like

## AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID
- No aa mutations found for SMARCAD1 with dbSNP ID

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No known somatic SNVs or InDels are reported in the dbSNP database for SMARCAD1. 

## Related disease
- SMARCAD1 has been linked to cancer such as Hepatocellular carcinoma and colorectal cancer. 

## Treatment and prognosis
- There are no specific treatments available for SMARCAD1-related diseases. 
- Understanding its functional roles may lead to the development of targeted therapies.

## Drug response
- There is currently no information available about drug response to SMARCAD1.

## Related Papers
- Chen et al. (2018). [SMARCAD1 Contributes to the Regulation of Naïve Pluripotency by Interacting with Histone Citrullination]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbamcr.2018.06.007)
- Deng et al. (2021). [lncRNA PANTR1 promotes EMT and liver cancer by regulating the SMARCAD1/TGF-β signaling pathway]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.canlet.2021.02.011) 
- Liang et al. (2013). [The role of SMARCAD1 in the development and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma]([Click](https://doi.org/10.3892/or.2013.2449)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**