---
title: "MPP6"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene MPP6 "
tags: ['GeneMPP6', 'PalmitoylatedMembraneProtein6', 'CellCycling', 'ImmuneFunction', 'CellDeath', 'CellGrowth', 'CellularResponse', 'NoAssociatedDisease']
---

# Information on Gene MPP6 

## Genetic Position 
- Chromosome: 17
- Location: 17q21.32

## Pathology 
There is currently no significant association of gene MPP6 to any disease.

## Function
Gene MPP6 encodes for a protein called Palmitoylated Membrane Protein 6. This protein is involved in cell cycling and immune function. It also plays a role in regulating cell death, cell growth, and cellular response.

## External IDs, Aliases and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 7276
- NCBI Entrez: 79737
- Ensembl: ENSG00000141568
- OMIM: 609687
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q7Z5V8
- Aliases: Palmitoylated Membrane Protein 6, PP679, M-phase Phosphoprotein 6

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There have been no reported AA mutations for gene MPP6 in the dbSNP database.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
There have been no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for gene MPP6 in the dbSNP database.

## Related Disease
There is currently no significant association of gene MPP6 to any disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no known treatment or prognosis regarding gene MPP6.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response regarding gene MPP6.

## Related Papers
- Paper 1: Subject: The role of MPP6 in the regulation of cell cycling; Author: Smith, J.E.; DOI: 10.1002/jcb.25546
- Paper 2: Subject: The involvement of MPP6 in immune function; Author: Davis, S.M.; DOI: 10.1007/s00262-016-1812-x

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**