---
title: "SPATA21"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene SPATA21"
tags: ['SPATA21', 'Spermatogenesis', 'MaleInfertility', 'GeneExpression', 'OxidativeStress', 'FertilizationOutcome', 'SNPs', 'Azoospermia']
---

# Information about gene SPATA21

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 1
- Genetic location: 1p36.21
- Positive orientation

## Pathology
SPATA21 gene is not directly associated with any pathological condition.

## Function for gene
SPATA21 gene encodes a protein that is involved in the regulation of spermatogenesis, sperm motility, and acrosome reaction.

## External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 83909
- HGNC ID: 25187
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000116872
- OMIM ID: -
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9NQW1
- Aliases: SPAG21, FLJ10509, NY-BR-82

## AA Mutation and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No AA mutation with dbSNP ID has been reported for SPATA21 gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID have been reported for SPATA21 gene.

## Related Disease
SPATA21 gene is not directly associated with any disease condition. However, some studies have shown that the variation in its expression levels can be linked to male infertility.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for individuals with alterations in SPATA21 gene. A proper diagnosis and treatment plan should be based on the underlying cause of the infertility.

## Drug Response
No specific drugs targeting SPATA21 gene have been discovered so far.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Inhibition of SPATA21 protects against oxidative stress-induced sperm damage in vitro and improves fertilization outcome in vivo
  - Author Name: Liu, W. et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1909101116)
  
- Subject: Association study between single nucleotide polymorphisms in WT1 or SPATA21 and non-obstructive azoospermia
  - Author Name: Kim, S. H. et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gene.2012.07.008)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**