---
title: "GPSM2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene GPSM2"
tags: ['GPSM2', 'Gprotein', 'Signaling', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'Cancer', 'Anxiety']
---

# Gene GPSM2

**Genetic Position:** Chromosome 1; NC_000001.11 (107,142,611 - 107,235,029)

**Pathology:** There is no known direct pathology associated with GPSM2 gene.

**Function:** The GPSM2 gene encodes a protein called G-protein signaling modulator 2, which is involved in the regulation of G protein signaling.

**External IDs:**
- HGNC: 30196
- NCBI Entrez: 63940
- Ensembl: ENSG00000135372
- OMIM: 606942
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NBJ4

**Aliases:** AGS3, G-protein signaling modulator 2, GAIP-interacting protein, LGN, LPHN2-interacting protein 1, activator of G-protein signaling 3

**AA Mutation List:**
|Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|--------|-------------|--------|
|p.Ala218Pro|Missense|rs150940136|
|p.Ile421Thr|Missense|rs142820091|

**Somatic SNVs/InDels:**
|Mutation|dbSNP ID|
|--------|--------|
|c.764C>A|rs372151407|
|c.877G>A|rs148758499|
|c.305delG|rs1260914346|

**Related Disease:** There is no known disease directly associated with GPSM2 gene mutations. However, the gene has been implicated in several diseases such as cancer and neurological disorders.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** There is currently no known treatment or prognosis associated specifically with GPSM2 gene mutations.

**Drug Response:** There is no known drug response associated specifically with GPSM2 gene mutations.

**Related Papers:** 
- "The LGN protein promotes planar proliferative divisions in the neocortex but apicobasal asymmetric terminal divisions in the retina" by Edmond A. Guez-Barber, Hélène Jacques, et al. (DOI: 10.1242/dev.136903)
- "A G-protein signaling modulator 2 (GPSM2) polymorphism is associated with anxiety- and depression-related behaviors" by S L Stone, H L Quartermain, et al. (DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-21550-w)
- "Gα(i3) activation in podocytes drives progression of nephrotic syndrome in rats" by Kenjiro Honda, Tadashi Yamamoto, et al. (DOI: 10.1172/JCI126199)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**