---
title: "TAF1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for TAF1"
tags: ['TAF1', 'XDP', 'TranscriptionRegulation', 'MissenseMutation', 'DystoniaParkinsonism', 'SymptomManagement', 'GeneticLocation', 'TFIIDComplex']
---

# Gene Information for TAF1

### Genetic Position 
The TAF1 gene is located on chromosome X at position Xq13.1.

### Pathology 
Mutations in the TAF1 gene are associated with X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism (XDP), a condition characterized by involuntary movements and Parkinson's disease-like symptoms.

### Function for Gene
The TAF1 gene encodes the TATA box-binding protein-associated factor 1 (TAF1), a component of the general transcription factor IID (TFIID) complex. TAF1 is involved in the transcriptional regulation of protein-coding genes.

### External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- HGNC: 11534
- NCBI Entrez: 6872
- Ensembl: ENSG00000101464
- OMIM: 313650
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P21675
- Aliases: DYT3, N-TAF1, TAF2B, TAFII250, TAFII-250

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.R2032G: missense mutation rs140411125
- p.R2173H: missense mutation rs786200974
- p.H2313N: missense mutation rs886041009

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic mutations in the TAF1 gene.

### Related Disease
Mutations in TAF1 are associated with X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism (XDP).

### Treatment and Prognosis
There are currently no specific treatments for XDP. Management involves treating symptoms, such as with medication for movement disorders.

### Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response specific to mutations in TAF1.

### Related Papers
- Author: Pascoet B et al. 
    - Title: A functional interaction between the histone acetyl transferase PCAF and TATA-box-binding protein can mediates PCAF-stimulated transcription
    - DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M004497200
- Author: Lee LV et al. 
    - Title: The unique phenomenology of sex-linked dystonia parkinsonism (XDP, 'Lubag')
    - DOI: 10.1212/WNL.54.11.2134
- Author: Bhatia KP et al.
    - Title: The Dystonia-Parkinsonism Syndrome of the Philippines (XDP)
    - DOI: 10.1093/brain/awh630

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**