---
title: "SNRNP200"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene SNRNP200"
tags: ['SNRNP200', 'RNA', 'splicing', 'RetinitisPigmentosa', 'geneticdisorder', 'helicase', 'mutation', 'prognosis']
---

# Information about gene SNRNP200

## Genetic position
SNRNP200 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 2 (2q11.2).

## Pathology and function
SNRNP200 gene encodes for a protein called helicase, which is involved in RNA splicing. Mutations in this gene cause a rare autosomal dominant disorder called Retinitis Pigmentosa with Splice Factor 1 (RP-SF1). This condition affects the retina, causing progressive vision loss.

## Function for gene
The SNRNP200 gene codes for a helicase, which facilitates the unwinding of RNA during RNA splicing by breaking hydrogen bonds that hold complementary base pairs together.

## External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases
- Gene ID: 6625
- Genomic location: Chr2:101,233,813-101,311,559
- Aliases: SF2, SF2h, SNRNP200A, BRR2, hBRR2, DDX21, HLR1, RNA helicase DDX21, splicing factor SF2

## External sites
- HGNC: 11130
- NCBI Entrez: 6625
- Ensembl: ENSG00000106366
- OMIM: 601664
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q12962

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- Missense mutation: R681W (rs121908587)
- Frameshift mutation: c.4588dup (rs1554298700)
- Nonsense mutation: R634X (rs202173360)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels found in the SNRNP200 gene, but none of them have been assigned a dbSNP ID yet.

## Related disease
Mutation in the SNRNP200 gene is associated with Retinitis Pigmentosa with Splice Factor 1 (RP-SF1), which is a rare genetic disorder involving progressive vision loss.

## Treatment and prognosis
There is currently no cure for Retinitis Pigmentosa, but treatment options such as low vision aids, gene therapy and transplantation are being developed. The prognosis for RP-SF1 can vary depending on the severity of the condition.

## Drug response
There is currently no known drug that specifically targets mutations in the SNRNP200 gene.

## Related papers
- Subject: "SNRNP200 gene mutation causing autosomal dominant Retinitis Pigmentosa with Splice Factor 1 phenotypes: A report of two families."
- Author Name: Yang et al.
- DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1080/24704091.2021.1981529)

- Subject: "The SNRNP200 gene mutation spectrum in autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa."
- Author Name: Sczyrba et al.
- DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/cge.12911)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**