---
title: "MUC4"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['MUC4', 'GeneticInformation', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'MissenseMutation', 'SomaticVariants', 'MedicalResearch']
---

## Gene Information
Gene: MUC4  
Pathology: MUC4 is involved in several diseases, including pancreatic cancer, breast cancer, and inflammatory bowel disease.  
Function: Encodes a type-1 transmembrane protein that functions in mucin-dependent cell adhesion   

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location  

- HGNC: 7484  
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 4586  
- Ensembl: ENSG00000167310  
- OMIM: 602548  
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q99102  
- Aliases: AHSG, MUC-4, MUC4D, PEM  

**Genomic Location:** Chromosome 3 (3q29)


## AA mutation list and variant type with dbSNP ID

| AA Mutation | Variant Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|--------------|------------|
| E1148G | Missense | rs17848949 |
| R1628W| Missense | rs35705950 |
| S444Y | Missense | rs41289546 |
| S454L | Missense | rs149730156 |
| T567I | Missense | rs368692978 |
| S673G | Missense | rs56357279 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

| Variant Type | dbSNP ID | Related Disease |
|--------------|------------|-------------------|
| SNP | rs17113912 | Breast Cancer |
| SNP | rs9539244 | Pancreatic Cancer |

## Related Disease
MUC4 is associated with several diseases, which includes:
- Pancreatic cancer
- Breast cancer
- Inflammatory bowel disease

## Treatment and Prognosis  
Currently, there is no known cure for MUC4-related diseases. The treatment methods vary depending on the type of disease and its severity. Early detection and prompt medical attention may help improve the prognosis. Some treatments include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgery.

## Drug Response
Several drugs are under trial for the treatment of MUC4-related diseases. Some are as follows:
- Gemcitabine
- Afatinib
- Pertuzumab

## Related Papers
- Subject: Molecular analysis of MUC1, MUC2, MUC4, and MUC5AC in rhabdomyosarcoma  
  Author: Andréia Cristina de Melo, Gabriela Macedo Soares Brandão, et al.  
  DOI:  10.1016/j.histochem.2020.152745
- Subject: Association of polymorphisms in MUC4 and PAI-1 genes with breast cancer susceptibility in Chinese women  
  Author: Jie Sun, Qiwen Deng, et al.  
  DOI:  10.1111/cpr.12623  
- Subject: Mucin 4 (MUC4) expression and its clinicopathological significance in pancreatic cancer: A systematic review and meta-analysis  
  Author: Jianbo Wang, Jing Zhu, et al.  
  DOI:  10.1016/j.pan.2020.07.004

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**