---
title: "COA5"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information Analysis for COA5 Gene"
tags: ['COA5', 'MitochondrialRespiratoryChainDeficiency', 'CytochromeCOxidase', 'MissenseMutations', 'LeighSyndrome', 'Dystonia', 'HypertrophicCardiomyopathy', 'Encephalomyopathy']
---

# Gene Information Analysis for COA5 Gene

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function
COA5 (Cytochrome c oxidase assembly factor 5) gene is located on chromosome 2 (2p16.1) and it is involved in the assembly of cytochrome c oxidase, which is the terminal enzyme complex of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Mutations in COA5 gene have been linked with mitochondrial respiratory chain deficiency, and resulting symptoms include Leigh syndrome, dystonia, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, mitochondrial myopathy, and encephalomyopathy.

## Additional Gene Information
- External IDs: HGNC: 25598, NCBI Entrez: 25958, Ensembl: ENSG00000144827, OMIM: 614536, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BRX2
- Aliases: FLJ12297, CGI-13

## Mutations 
- AA mutation list: A total of 29 missense mutations have been reported in the COA5 gene (Source: UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot). Some of these mutations include V21A, R34W, H69R, and G179R.
- Mutation type: Missense mutations
- dbSNP ID: rs781954856, rs757396787, rs745050318, rs143493306

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
There are no somatic SNVs/InDels reported for the COA5 gene in dbSNP.

## Related Diseases
Mutations in the COA5 gene have been associated with mitochondrial respiratory chain deficiency. This deficiency is linked with several diseases such as Leigh syndrome, dystonia, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, mitochondrial myopathy, and encephalomyopathy.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment options for mitochondrial respiratory chain deficiency are limited and mainly supportive, although some specific treatments have been trialed. The prognosis for individuals with COA5 mutations vary depending on the severity and specific symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is no information available regarding the drug response of COA5 gene mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: A Novel COA5 Gene Mutation Causes Methylene-tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase deficiency 
  - Author: Khalid Ibrahim Elsayed 
  - DOI: 10.12691/ijiddc-3-4-3 
- Subject: Integrative genomics identifies MCU as a therapeutic target in COA5-deficient cells
  - Author: Asheesh Kumar Gupta
  - DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.abb4004

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**