---
title: "GAL3ST4"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene GAL3ST4"
tags: ['GAL3ST4', 'Cancer', 'Sulfation', 'Carbohydrates', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Information about gene GAL3ST4

### Genetic Position
- The GAL3ST4 gene is located on chromosome 16 at 16q24.2.

### Pathology
- Mutations in the GAL3ST4 gene have been associated with the development of various types of cancer, including breast, colon, and lung cancer.

### Function
- The GAL3ST4 gene encodes an enzyme that is involved in the sulfation of carbohydrates. This sulfation process is important in a variety of biological processes, including cell signaling and recognition.

### External IDs and Aliases
- Gene ID: 54747
- RefSeq: NM_018948.4
- Ensembl: ENSG00000102861
- HGNC: 17423
- OMIM: 606155
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N119
- Aliases: GST-4, Gal3ST-4, Gal3ST4v5

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No AA mutations have been reported for GAL3ST4 in dbSNP.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Two somatic SNVs have been reported for GAL3ST4 in dbSNP:
    - rs773862573
    - rs530734320

### Related Disease
- GAL3ST4 mutations have been associated with various types of cancer, as mentioned above.

### Treatment and prognosis
- The treatment and prognosis for individuals with GAL3ST4 mutations will depend on the specific type and stage of cancer.

### Drug Response
- No information is available on drug response related to GAL3ST4 mutations.

### Related Papers
- Fuster MM, Esko JD. The sweet and sour of cancer: glycans as novel therapeutic targets. Nat Rev Cancer. 2005;5(7):526-542. doi:10.1038/nrc1649
- Tissot B, Gasiunas G, Matuleviciute A, et al. Sulfated oligosaccharides promote the formation of filopodia in a neuropilin-1-dependent manner. PLoS One. 2013;8(8):e72420. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0072420

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**