---
title: "HNF1A"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about the gene HNF1A"
tags: ['HNF1A', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticVariations', 'MODY', 'Diabetes', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'PersonalizedMedicine']
---

# Information about the gene HNF1A

## Genetic Position and Aliases
The HNF1A gene is located on chromosome 12q24.2 and has the following aliases: TCF1, HNF1, LFB1, MODY3.

## Function of the gene
The HNF1A gene encodes for a transcription factor that plays a crucial role in regulating gene expression in the liver, pancreas, and intestines. It is involved in the development and functioning of these organs, specifically in regulating glucose metabolism.

## External IDs and Links
Here are the external IDs and links related to the HNF1A gene: 
- HGNC: 4853
- NCBI Entrez: 6927
- Ensembl: ENSG00000142515
- OMIM: 142410
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P20823

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
Several variations have been found in the HNF1A gene. Here are some of the amino acid (AA) mutations and their mutation type with corresponding dbSNP ID:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|------------|--------|
|p.Arg263His| Missense | rs121908001 |
|p.Gly319Ser| Missense | rs137854159 |
|p.Leu107Ser| Missense | rs121908002 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Several somatic SNVs/InDels have also been identified in the HNF1A gene, with corresponding dbSNP IDs. However, there is insufficient information currently available regarding these findings.

## Related Diseases
HNF1A gene mutations are associated with maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY), a subtype of type 2 diabetes mellitus that manifests in young individuals.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment and prognosis of MODY caused by HNF1A mutations typically involve glucose control through diet and exercise, as well as medication if necessary. Early diagnosis and personalized approaches can have long-lasting positive effects on patient outcomes.

## Drug Response
Due to the role of HNF1A in regulating glucose metabolism, medications (such as sulfonylureas) that stimulate insulin secretion are effective in treating MODY caused by HNF1A mutations.

## References
- Ellard, S., Colclough, K. (2006). Mutations in the genes encoding the transcription factors hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 alpha (HNF1A) and 4 alpha (HNF4A) in maturity-onset diabetes of the young. Hum Mutat, 27(9), 854-69. doi: 10.1002/humu.20357
- Hattersley, A. T. et al. (2006). Insulin secretion defects in carriers of hepatocyte nuclear factor-1alpha (HNF-1alpha) gene mutations in the UK. Diabet Med, 23(4), 407-14. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2006.01817.x

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**