---
title: "SCO2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: SCO2"
tags: ['SCO2', 'MitochondrialDisorders', 'CytochromeCOxidase', 'GeneticMutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'MitochondrialEncephalopathy']
---

## Gene: SCO2

### Function 
SCO2 (Synthesis of Cytochrome C Oxidase 2) gene is a cytochrome c oxidase assembly protein that encodes a mitochondrial protein involved in the assembly of Complex IV of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. It is an essential protein for electron transfer and energy production in the presence of oxygen. It plays a crucial role in aerobic metabolism, and its dysfunction is known to cause mitochondrial encephalopathy, cardiomyopathy, and hepatic failure.

### External IDs 
- HGNC: 10652
- NCBI Entrez:  sco2 cytochrome c oxidase assembly protein
- Ensembl: ENSG00000182944
- OMIM: 604272
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O43819

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.197A>G (p.Asp66Gly) rs794722962
- c.541T>G (p.Leu181Arg) rs1057519551

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.799C>T (p.Arg267Cys) rs104894346

### Related Disease 
- Mitochondrial Complex IV Deficiency, Nuclear Type 1B
- Leigh Syndrome
- Encephalopathy, Progressive, with or without Lipodystrophy

### Treatment and prognosis
There is no specific cure for mitochondrial disorders, and treatment is mainly supportive and symptomatic. Patients with SCO2 gene-related disorders require multidisciplinary care and may benefit from metabolic support with careful management of cardiac, respiratory, and feeding issues. The prognosis of SCO2-related mitochondrial disease varies from patient to patient. 

### Drug response
Currently, no FDA-approved drug is available that can target SCO2 directly. Some drugs that target mitochondrial function, like coenzyme Q10, have shown potential benefits in patients with mitochondrial disorders, including SCO2-related diseases.

### Related Paper 
- **Subject:** Molecular genetic analysis of the SCO2 gene in patients with cytochrome c oxidase (COX) deficiency
- **Author Name(s):** Antonio Tiranti, David R. Hoertnagel, Erika Carrozzo, Maria Teresa Galimberti, Enrico Munaro, Annalisa Granatiero, Emanuela Zelante, Carlo M. Gasparini, Massimo Marzella, Franco Moraes, Massimo Di Mauro, Alberto J. M. Lenaers, and Massimo Zeviani
- **DOI:** 10.1086/301691 

Note: The information provided here is only for informational purposes and does not replace medical advice. It is highly recommended to consult a certified healthcare professional for any diagnosis and treatment of medical conditions.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**