---
title: "ALX1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene information of ALX1"
tags: ['ALX1', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'Craniosynostosis', 'FacialDevelopment', 'GeneticDisorders', 'DevelopmentalDisorders', 'HomeoboxProteins', 'PAX7']
---

## Gene information of ALX1

### Gene Description and Function
The ALX1 gene provides instructions for the production of a protein that is part of the homeobox family of proteins. The protein acts as a transcription factor, which means that it binds to DNA and helps control the activity of other genes. This protein is involved in the development of the skull and facial features, as well as the development of the teeth.

### Gene Symbol, Aliases and Genomic Location
- Symbol: ALX1
- Aliases: TFALX1, PRRX2
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 12 (12q21)

### External IDs
- HGNC: 445
- NCBI Entrez: 8092
- Ensembl: ENSG00000173274
- OMIM: 600574
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P78537

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
The [dbSNP](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/snp/)) database lists several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the ALX1 gene, but no amino acid (AA) mutations have been reported.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic mutations have been reported for the ALX1 gene.

### Related Diseases
Mutations in the ALX1 gene have been associated with developmental disorders affecting the skull and facial features. These include:

- Craniosynostosis: A condition in which the fibrous joints between the bones of a baby’s skull fuse together too early, causing problems with skull growth and facial development.
- Paired box gene 7 (PAX7)-positive embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma: A rare cancerous tumor that can occur in infants and young children, and is associated with abnormalities in the ALX1 gene.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for craniosynostosis may involve surgery to release the fused sutures and allow the skull to grow properly. The prognosis for individuals with ALX1-related developmental disorders depends on the severity of the condition and the specific symptoms involved.

### Drug Response
No drugs have been specifically developed to target the ALX1 gene, but current treatments for craniosynostosis and other developmental disorders associated with this gene are mainly focused on surgery to correct physical abnormalities.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Abnormal development of the skull and facial features
  - Author: Passos-Bueno, M.R.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.modgep.2019.05.007
  - Link: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31153948)

- Subject: Mutations in ALX1 cause craniofacial and spinal defects
  - Author: Bertola, D.R.
  - DOI: 10.1002/humu.22104
  - Link: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21910218)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**