---
title: "CRISP2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['CRISP2', 'Spermatogenesis', 'Fertilization', 'MissenseMutation', 'GeneticInformation', 'Proteomics', 'Testis', 'UniProtKB']
---

## Gene Information
**Gene Name**: CRISP2 \
**Pathology**: Unknown \
**Genetic Position**: Chromosome 15 (15q23) \
**Aliases**: TXNDC6, Cysteine-rich secretory protein 2, and Testicular tissue protein Li 115

## Function
CRISP2 is a member of the cysteine-rich secretory protein (CRISP) family. It is mainly expressed in the testis, specifically in the post-meiotic stages of spermatogenesis. The protein binds to the sperm head and is incorporated into the sperm membrane during spermatogenesis. It is considered to be involved in the regulation of the fertilization process.

## External IDs and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 23660
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 80378
- Ensembl: ENSG00000128918
- OMIM: 605805
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BY18
- Genomic location: Chromosome 15: 70,415,682-70,424,346

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several reported variants in the CRISP2 gene. Here are a few examples:

| Amino Acid Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------------|---------------|--------|
| L41F | Missense | rs121912678 |
| E74K | Missense | rs886042847 |
| R82C | Missense | rs121912679 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID on the CRISP2 gene.

## Related Diseases
The CRISP2 gene is not associated with any known disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis
As there are no known diseases associated with the CRISP2 gene, there is no specific treatment or prognosis related to it.

## Drug Response
There is currently no information available on drug response related to the CRISP2 gene.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Role of CRISP proteins in sperm fertilization
- Author: Vasudev Kantae, Muhammad Imran Arshad, and Ashok Agarwal
- DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-38243/v1

- Subject: A proteomic analysis on human sperm tail: comparison between normozoospermia and asthenozoospermia
- Author: Gian Maria Busetto, et al.
- DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0115704

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**