---
title: "ADRB2"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information Analysis for Gene ADRB2"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'ADRB2Gene', 'Function', 'Mutations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Genetic Information Analysis for Gene ADRB2

## Gene Information:
- Function: The ADRB2 gene encodes beta-2 adrenergic receptor protein which is expressed on smooth muscle cells and increases the production of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) leading to the relaxation of the smooth muscle cells. 
- External IDs and Aliases:
    - HGNC: 316
    - NCBI Entrez: 154
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000169252
    - OMIM: 109690
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P07550
- Genomic location: Chromosome 5q32

## Mutations:
- AA Mutation List:
    - c.16C>T (p.Ala6Val)
    - c.46A>G (p.Arg16Gly)
    - c.79C>G (p.Gln27Glu)
    - c.491C>T (p.Ser165Phe)
    - c.523C>A (p.Arg175His)
- Mutation Type: Missense
- dbSNP IDs: rs1042713, rs1042714, rs1042717, rs1800888, rs1800887

## Somatic Variants:
- dbSNP IDs: rs1800888, rs1042714, rs1042713, rs190881388, rs143487079, rs201335596

## Related Diseases:
- Asthma: ADRB2 gene variations have been associated with increased susceptibility to asthma.
- Heart Disease: Certain ADRB2 gene variants have been associated with increased risk of heart disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis:
- Asthma: Beta-2 agonists such as salbutamol and albuterol are commonly used to manage asthma symptoms by binding to beta-2 adrenergic receptors and dilating the airways. Genetic variation in the ADRB2 gene may impact the patient's response to these drugs.
- Heart Disease: Beta-blockers, which block the action of adrenaline on beta-2 adrenergic receptors, are commonly used to treat heart disease. Genetic variation in the ADRB2 gene may impact the patient's response to these drugs.

## Drug Response:
- Beta-2 agonists: Patients with specific ADRB2 gene variants may have a better response to beta-2 agonist drugs, leading to improved asthma symptoms.
- Beta-blockers: Patients with specific ADRB2 genotypes may have an increased risk for adverse effects such as fatigue, a decrease in blood pressure, or worsening of the heart condition when treated with beta-blockers.

## Related Papers:
- Subject: ADRB2 gene variations and their impact on asthma treatment with beta-2 agonists
  - Author: Loza MJ, Foster S, Peters SP, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2012.11.052
- Subject: The relationship between ADRB2 gene polymorphisms and heart disease
  - Author: Ma L, Yang L, Qi Y, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1111/jch.12663

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**