---
title: "CRYGS"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene CRYGS"
tags: ['CRYGS', 'CongenitalCataract', 'Chromosome3', 'MissenseMutation', 'ChaperoneFunction', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticDisorders']
---

# Gene CRYGS

## Genetic Position
The gene CRYGS is located on chromosome 3q22.1.

## Pathology
Mutations in the CRYGS gene have been associated with a congenital nuclear cataract, which is a clouding of the eye's natural lens that is present at birth.

## Function
The CRYGS gene encodes a member of the group of small heat shock proteins (sHSPs) that has a chaperone-like function and plays a role in maintaining the transparency of the eye lens.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 2424
- NCBI Entrez: 1427
- Ensembl: ENSG00000169218
- OMIM: 123680
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P22914
- Aliases: Alpha-crystallin G subunit, CRYG3, CTRCT21, CTRCT6

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- R12C (rs11554275)
- R12H (rs143071795)
- R12S (rs141617760)
- R21W (rs104894151)
- R54C (rs104894152)
- R54L (rs104894153)
- S100R (rs398123065)

All of the above mutations are missense mutations.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known somatic SNVs or InDels in the CRYGS gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the CRYGS gene have been associated with congenital nuclear cataract, which can result in decreased visual acuity.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment for congenital cataract is typically surgical removal of the lens followed by corrective lenses or intraocular lens implantation. The prognosis for individuals with CRYGS-related congenital cataract is generally good with appropriate treatment.

## Drug Response
Currently, there are no drugs specifically targeted to treat CRYGS-related congenital cataract.

## Related Papers
- Sharma, K. K., Santhiya, S. T., & Anand, D. (2004). Molecular genetics of congenital catarina. Indian Journal of Ophthalmology, 52(3), 247–257. [Click](https://doi.org/10.4103/0301-4738.13612)
- Berry, V., Francis, P., Reddy, M. A., & Bhattacharya, S. S. (2001). Molecular genetic basis of inherited cataract and associated phenotypes. Surv Ophthalmol, 45(1), 1-14. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/s0039-6257(00)00139-x)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**