---
title: "HMCN1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: HMCN1"
tags: ['HMCN1', 'ExtracellularMatrix', 'CellAdhesion', 'InheritedRetinalDegenerations', 'CutisLaxa', 'RetinitisPigmentosa', 'GeneticCauses', 'SymptomManagement']
---

# Gene: HMCN1

### Function:

HMCN1 (Hemicentin-1) is a large extracellular matrix protein and is involved in the proper development and maintenance of various tissues including the heart, skin, and kidney. It is also known to be involved in cell adhesion, migration, and proliferation.

### External IDs:

- HGNC: 13628
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 83897
- Ensembl: ENSG00000181863
- OMIM: 606194
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6UX07

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:

No mutations in HMCN1 have been reported in humans to date.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

No somatic mutations in HMCN1 have been reported in any cancer types according to the COSMIC database.

### Related disease:

- Autosomal Recessive Cutis Laxa Type 3B
- Retinitis Pigmentosa

### Treatment and prognosis:

Currently, there is no cure or specific treatment for HMCN1-related diseases. Management is focused on addressing the symptoms and complications associated with the particular disease.

### Drug response:

No known drug response information is available for HMCN1-related diseases.

### Related Papers:

- Subject: The Laminin-Related Hemicentins: Multifunctional Proteins with Pleiotropic Roles
  - Author(s): Yurchenco, Peter D.
  - DOI: 10.1146/annurev-cellbio-021113-105419
- Subject: Identification of Underlying Genetic Causes in Inherited Retinal Degenerations: A Review.
  - Author(s): Saghiri, Radgondeh Mohammadi;Ebrahimiadib, Nazanin;Allahyari, Mina;Lashay, Alireza;Alavi, Mojtaba;Chaibakhsh, Samira;Sanati, Mohammad Hossein
  - DOI: 10.1007/s10792-018-0843-4

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**