---
title: "PRPF31"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene: PRPF31"
tags: ['PRPF31', 'RetinitisPigmentosa', 'mRNA', 'Splicing', 'Genetics', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'VisualImpairment']
---

### Gene: PRPF31

#### **Genetic Position**

PRPF31 is a gene located on chromosome 19q13.42. It spans 24,424 base pairs and contains 14 exons.

#### **Pathology**

Mutations in the PRPF31 gene are associated with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa (adRP), a degenerative eye disease characterized by progressive loss of vision due to the death of photoreceptor cells in the retina.

#### **Function**

PRPF31 encodes for a protein called pre-mRNA processing factor 31 (PRPF31), which is involved in mRNA splicing. Specifically, PRPF31 is a component of the U4/U6.U5 tri-snRNP complex that catalyzes splicing of pre-mRNA molecules. 

#### **External IDs**

- HGNC: 9469
- NCBI Entrez: 26121
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105483
- OMIM: 606419
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N6T3

Aliases: HPRP31, NMP200, RP11, SNRNP70

#### **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID**

- c.1115G>A (p.Arg372His) - rs104894064
- c.665C>T (p.Arg222Cys) - rs113180211
- c.524G>A (p.Gly175Asp) - rs104894065

#### **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**

There are no known somatic SNVs or InDels within the PRPF31 gene.

#### **Related Disease**

Mutations in PRPF31 are associated with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa (adRP), a progressive eye disease that leads to blindness. It is caused by the degeneration of photoreceptor cells in the retina.

#### **Treatment and Prognosis**

Currently, there is no cure for adRP. However, visual function can be improved through the use of low vision aids, such as magnifiers and telescopes. Gene therapy and stem cell therapy are potential treatments currently under investigation.

#### **Drug Response**

There is currently no known drug that directly targets PRPF31 mutations. However, several clinical trials are underway for medications that aim to slow the progression of retinitis pigmentosa.

#### **Related Papers**

1. **Subject**: Retinitis pigmentosa caused by mutations in the splicing factor PRPF31: a review of the literature and update.    
   **Author**: Ruzafa N, Juan M, Ramos C, et al.    
   **DOI Link**: 10.3390/genes9010051

2. **Subject**: A Comprehensive Analysis of PRPF31 Gene in Chinese Patients with Autosomal Dominant Retinitis Pigmentosa    
   **Author**: Wei X., Dong X., Zhuang W., et al.    
   **DOI Link**: 10.1097/OPX.0000000000001176

3. **Subject**: Clinical characteristics of patients with PRPF31-associated retinitis pigmentosa    
   **Author**: Riera M., Navarro R., Ruiz-Nogales S., et al.    
   **DOI Link**: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2013.05.031

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**