---
title: "GATA1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene GATA1"
tags: ['GATA1', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'HematologicalDisorders', 'XLT', 'CEHA', 'AMKL', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene GATA1

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
Gene GATA1 is located on chromosome Xq21.3 and encodes for a transcription factor known as GATA-binding factor 1. This transcription factor plays a vital role in the development of erythrocytes and megakaryocytes. Mutations in GATA1 have been associated with several hematological disorders such as X-linked thrombocytopenia, anemia, and leukemia.

## Function for Gene
The GATA1 gene encodes a transcription factor that regulates the expression of genes involved in hematopoiesis. It is essential for erythroid and megakaryocytic differentiation and maturation.

## External IDs and Genomic Location, Aliases
- HGNC: 4163
- NCBI Entrez: 2623
- Ensembl: ENSG00000102145
- OMIM: 305371
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P15976
- Genomic Location: Xq21.3
- Aliases: ERYF1, GF-1, Gf1, XLA

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several amino acid mutations that have been documented in GATA1. These include:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| ----------- | -------------| ---------|
| R216Q | Missense | rs104894668 |
| R216W | Missense | rs104894669 |
| D218G | Missense | rs786205076 |
| E339D | Missense | rs104894670 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Several somatic mutations have been identified in GATA1. Some of these are:

| Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| -------- | ------------ | -------- |
| c.381delC | Frameshift | rs786205220 |
| c.788G>A | Missense | rs786205075 |
| c.787G>A | Missense | rs786205074 |
| c.499T>C | Missense | rs786205078 |

## Related Disease
Mutations in GATA1 have been associated with several hematological disorders such as:

1. X-linked thrombocytopenia with or without anemia (XLT)
2. Congenital erythroid hypoplastic anemia (CEHA)
3. Acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (AMKL)

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for GATA1-related disorders depends on the specific condition and severity of symptoms. Red blood cell and platelet transfusions may be indicated for anemia and thrombocytopenia, respectively. In severe cases, bone marrow transplantation may be required. The prognosis for individuals with GATA1-related disorders depends on the type and severity of the condition.

## Drug Response
There is limited information available on the drug response for GATA1-related disorders.

## Related Papers
1. Iuchi, I., Kanno, H., Horiguchi, H., Sasaki, S., Matsui, K., Morishita, K., ... & Sasaki, T. (2017). Identification and Functional Analysis of Novel GATA1 Variants in Japanese Patients With X-Linked Thrombocytopenia With or Without Anemia. American journal of hematology, 92(5), 474-480. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/ajh.24673)

2. Song, W. J., Sullivan, M. G., Legare, R. D., Hutchings, S., Tan, X., Kufrin, D., ... & Harada, H. (1999). Haploinsufficiency of CBFA2 causes familial thrombocytopenia with propensity to develop acute myelogenous leukaemia. Nature genetics, 23(2), 166-175. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/13793)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**