---
title: "SSX1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SSX1"
tags: ['GeneSSX1', 'SynovialSarcoma', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'GeneExpression', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Methylation']
---

# Information about Gene SSX1

## Genetic Position
The gene SSX1 is located on Chromosome X at position Xp11.23. 

## Pathology
The SSX1 gene is linked to the pathology of cancer. It is involved in the development of synovial sarcomas, a type of soft tissue cancer that usually affects young adults in their 20s and 30s.

## Function
The function of SSX1 is not well understood. However, it is known to be involved in the regulation of gene expression.

## External IDs and Aliases

**External IDs**
- HGNC: 11319
- NCBI Entrez: 6757
- Ensembl: ENSG00000184218
- OMIM: 300190
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P17090

**Aliases**
- SSX
- CT5.1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several AA mutations associated with the SSX1 gene, including missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations. Some of these mutations and their dbSNP ID are:

| AA Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|-------------|---------------|----------|
| Q3H         | Missense      | rs148522932|
| L103P       | Missense      | rs267607036|
| R137*       | Nonsense      | rs1064793205|
| D202fs      | Frameshift    | rs796052696|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels associated with the SSX1 gene and their dbSNP IDs are:

| SNV/InDel  | dbSNP ID |
|------------|----------|
| A291V      | rs372395528|
| V89L       | rs72631835 |
| E90*       | rs1064793272|

## Related Disease
The SSX1 gene is associated with synovial sarcoma, a type of soft tissue cancer that usually affects young adults in their 20s and 30s.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis of synovial sarcoma depend on the stage of the cancer and the patient's overall health. Treatment options include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.

## Drug Response
There is no known specific drug response associated with mutations in the SSX1 gene.

## Related Papers
- Subject: The SSX Gene Family: Characterization of 9 Complete Genes  
  Author: Dos Santos NR, et al.  
  DOI: 10.1038/sj.onc.1203595
  
- Subject: Identification of aberrantly methylated tumor suppressor candidate genes in osteosarcoma  
  Author: Okamoto K, et al.  
  DOI: 10.1002/ijc.23890

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**