---
title: "DHODH"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene DHODH"
tags: ['DHODH', 'PyrimidineBiosynthesis', 'MillerSyndrome', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Treatment', 'GeneticInformation']
---

# Information about gene DHODH

## Genetic Position
The DHODH gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 16 at position 22.1. 

## Pathology 
Mutations in DHODH have been associated with diseases such as Miller Syndrome and Parkinson's Disease. 

## Function for gene 
DHODH (dihydroorotate dehydrogenase) plays a crucial role in the de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis pathway. It is responsible for the conversion of dihydroorotate to orotate, which is then converted to uridine monophosphate, a precursor for the synthesis of DNA and RNA. 

## External IDs and aliases 
- HGNC:2867
- NCBI Entrez:1723
- Ensembl:ENSG00000103313
- OMIM:126064
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:Q02127
### Aliases 
- DHOdehase 
- DHOD 

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- R140Q - missense mutation - rs7431532
- R267W - missense mutation - rs794727799
- R72Q - missense mutation - rs1061622
- R95C - missense mutation - rs141580715

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.1259A>G - rs12995502
- c.1111C>T - rs201430403
- c.1010G>A - rs149366891
- c.1199C>T - rs7289123

## Related Disease 
1. Miller Syndrome 
2. Parkinson's Disease

## Treatment and prognosis 
There is no definitive cure for Miller Syndrome. Management of symptoms has proven beneficial. Treatment for Parkinson's Disease includes medications, such as levodopa, and sometimes surgery for advanced cases. 

## Drug response 
Preliminary studies suggest that DHODH inhibitors may have therapeutic applications in certain types of cancers, lupus erythematosus, and multiple sclerosis.

## Author's Name 

## Related research papers 
- De Jesus E. H., Landry A. P., Fadeyi O., et al. (2019). Novel inhibitors of dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH). Journal of Medicinal Chemistry, 62(2), 727-744. doi: 10.1021/acs.jmedchem.8b00994
- Sobreira N. & Valle D. (2017). Genetic Underpinning of Miller Syndrome as a Model for Postnatal Craniofacial, Dental and Anthropometric Development. Human Molecular Genetics, 26(R1), R59-R68. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddx258.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**