---
title: "KIAA1279"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: KIAA1279"
tags: ['KIAA1279', 'GeneticInformation', 'GeneFunction', 'Mutation', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Gene Information: KIAA1279

## Genetic Position:
The gene KIAA1279 is located on chromosome 10q23.33.

## Pathology and Function:
The function of the KIAA1279 gene is still not fully understood. It is known to play a role in the nervous system development, as well as in the regulation of glucose metabolism and cell division.

## External IDs, Aliases and Genomic Location:
- External IDs: HGNC: 26752, NCBI Entrez: 27243, Ensembl: ENSG00000070770, OMIM: 607814, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q5T6P1
- Aliases: FLJ12779, C10orf34, MGC25328
- Genomic location: Chromosome 10q23.33

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
There are several AA mutations in the KIAA1279 gene, which are associated with different diseases. Some of them are:
- p.Ile1504Val (rs199826821) - This mutation is associated with an increased risk of developing hypertension and increased blood pressure.
- p.Arg1574Gly (rs2856864) - This mutation is associated with bipolar disorder, a mental disorder characterized by periods of depression and mania.
- p.Arg1753Trp (rs757907324) - This mutation is associated with microcephaly, a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by a smaller-than-normal head circumference.
- p.Ala2275Val (rs767978202) - This mutation is associated with epilepsy, a neurological disorder characterized by recurrent seizures.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
There are currently no somatic SNVs/InDels reported in the KIAA1279 gene.

## Related Disease:
Mutations in the KIAA1279 gene have been associated with several diseases, including hypertension, bipolar disorder, microcephaly, and epilepsy.

## Treatment and Prognosis:
The treatment and prognosis for KIAA1279-related diseases depend on the specific condition and its severity.

## Drug Response:
There is currently no information regarding drug response in KIAA1279-related diseases.

## Related Papers:
- Subject: Exome sequencing identifies rare de novo variants in ATP13A2 and KIAA1279 in familial Parkinson's disease.  
  Author: Parikh I, et al.  
  DOI: 10.1007/s10048-018-0543-3 
  
- Subject: KIAA1279 gene variants are associated with hypertension and blood pressure in the Chinese Han population.  
  Author: Wu H, et al.  
  DOI: 10.1038/gene.2015.52

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**