---
title: "IGF2BP2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene IGF2BP2 "
tags: ['IGF2BP2', 'Type2Diabetes', 'BreastCancer', 'ColorectalCancer', 'RNAStabilization', 'RNARegulation', 'DrugTarget', 'GeneticVariations']
---

# Information about gene IGF2BP2 

## Genetic Position
The gene IGF2BP2 is located on chromosome 3 at the position 3q27.2.

## Pathology
Variations in the IGF2BP2 gene have been associated with susceptibility to type 2 diabetes, as well as other diseases such as breast cancer and colorectal cancer.

## Function
The IGF2BP2 gene encodes insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2), which is involved in RNA stabilization, transportation, and translation. It binds to specific mRNAs and regulates their expression, affecting many cellular processes such as proliferation, apoptosis, and differentiation.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 25402
- NCBI Entrez: 10642
- Ensembl: ENSG00000164027
- OMIM: 606797
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y6M1

Aliases: IMP-2, ARGONAUTE2, CRDBP, VICKZ2, ZBP2

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Some of the AA mutations in IGF2BP2 gene are:
- rs4402960: P→L (Proline to Leucine) at position 16 (P16L)
- rs1470579: R→Q (Arginine to Glutamine) at position 158 (R158Q)
- rs11705701: E→G (Glutamic acid to Glycine) at position 169 (E169G)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Some of the somatic SNVs and InDels in the IGF2BP2 gene are:
- rs3739485: A→G at position 1624
- rs10152492: T→C at position 2139
- rs13161101: G→A at position 2920

## Related Disease
Variations in IGF2BP2 gene have been associated with the susceptibility to type 2 diabetes, breast cancer, and colorectal cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment available for IGF2BP2 gene-related diseases yet. However, the identification of genetic variations in this gene, combined with other clinical and lifestyle factors, may help in identifying individuals at risk of developing these diseases, enabling early diagnosis and intervention.

## Drug Response
Studies have identified potential drugs that can target the RNA-binding activity of IGF2BP2, providing new therapeutic opportunities for cancer treatment.

## Related Papers
- Author: Duan H, et al.
 DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-61425-6
- Author: Miyamoto T, et al.
 DOI: 10.1007/s00439-004-1238-8
- Author: Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium 2 (WTCCC2), et al.
 DOI: 10.1038/ng.2313

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**