---
title: "LASP1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene LASP1"
tags: ['LASP1', 'Cancer', 'Genetics', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'Prognosis', 'Mutation', 'SNP', 'Metastasis']
---

# Information about gene LASP1

## Genetic Position
- LASP1 gene is located on chromosome 17q11.2 and spans 18,467 bp.

## Pathology and Function
- LASP1 gene encodes for the LIM and SH3 domain protein 1, which is involved in multiple cellular processes including cytoskeleton organization, cell proliferation, and migration.
- LASP1 has been implicated in the pathology of various cancers, including breast cancer, lung cancer, and hepatocellular carcinoma.

## External IDs, Aliases and Genomic Location
- Gene ID: 3927
- Genomic location: 17q11.2
- Aliases: Lasp-1, MLN 50, Lamellipodin, LIM and SH3 protein 1, LIM-nebulette, LASP-1, MLN50B

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- LASP1 gene has several Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) reported in dbSNP. Some of the missense mutations reported are as follows:
     - p.Gly80Arg (rs34579171)
     - p.Pro88Ser (rs149771941)
     - p.Pro93Leu (rs144501290)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Several somatic mutations in LASP1 have been reported in various types of cancers, including the following:
     - p.Gly67Arg (rs55942030) in breast cancer
     - p.Ala171Thr (rs113025837) in lung cancer
     - p.Leu164Phe (rs1057519980) in lung cancer

## Related Diseases
- LASP1 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various cancers, including breast cancer, lung cancer, and hepatocellular carcinoma.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- As LASP1 is involved in tumor progression, it has been identified as a promising target for cancer therapy. Targeting LASP1 can help in decreasing cell proliferation and limiting metastasis.
- A study has shown that in patients with early stage breast cancer, high expression of LASP1 is associated with poor prognosis.

## Drug Response
- Several studies have identified LASP1 as a therapeutic target in various types of cancer. Several drugs targeting LASP1 are under investigation, including the compound T56-LIM, which is a small molecule inhibitor of LASP1.

## Related Papers
- Subject: The role of LIM and SH3 domain protein 1 (LASP1) in cancer
- Author: Vignesh Kumar Raja
- DOI: 10.1007/s11033-019-05292-x

- Subject: High LASP1 expression is a predictor of poor prognosis in patients with early stage breast cancer
- Author: Nicoletta Fortunati, et al.
- DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2012.1483

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**