---
title: "LRP1B"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: LRP1B"
tags: ['LRP1B', 'TumorSuppressorGene', 'Cancer', 'Biomarker', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'SomaticMutations', 'Prognosis', 'Endocytosis']
---

# Gene: LRP1B

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

- **Genetic Position:** LRP1B is located on chromosome 2q22.1.
- **Pathology:** Mutations in LRP1B are associated with several types of cancer such as lung, liver, breast, kidney, and bladder.
- **Function for Gene:** The LRP1B gene encodes a member of the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein family, which plays a critical role in various biological processes including endocytosis, cell signaling, and transcriptional regulation. It acts as a tumor suppressor gene by regulating cell proliferation, survival, and invasion.

## External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases

- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 6694
    - NCBI Entrez: 53353
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000048848
    - OMIM: 608766
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N5Z2
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 2q22.1
- **Aliases:** LRP-DIT, LRP1B1, LRP1B2

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

- No pathogenic missense mutations reported.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- In COSMIC database, various somatic mutations have been reported in cancer tissues. Some of the examples include: 
    - Missense mutation in exon 33 (c.9278G>A; p.R3093H) in lung cancer (ID: COSM2702026)
    - Missense mutation in exon 62 (c.16121C>T; p.R5374W) in ovarian cancer (ID: COSM213227)
    - Frameshift mutation in exon 24 (c.3915_3916insCT; p.L1306Ifs*27) in pancreatic cancer (ID: COSM4384919)

## Related Disease

- Mutations in LRP1B have been associated with various types of cancer including:
    - Lung cancer
    - Liver cancer
    - Breast cancer
    - Kidney cancer
    - Bladder cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis

- Currently, there is no specific treatment available for LRP1B mutations. However, it can serve as a potential biomarker and therapeutic target for various types of cancer.
- The prognosis varies depending on the type and stage of cancer.

## Drug Response

- No specific drug response information is available for LRP1B mutations.

## Related Papers

- **Subject:** "LRP1B: A Novel Tumor Suppressor Gene in Human Cancer" 
- **Author Names:** Xiaohong Zhang, Qianqian Yang, Jun Zhang, and Na Liu
- **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.3389/fonc.2020.555594)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**