---
title: "ANKK1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene ANKK1"
tags: ['ANKK1', 'PsychiatricDisorders', 'DopamineNeurotransmission', 'SubstanceUseDisorder', 'PersonalityTraits', 'MetabolicDisorders', 'DrugResponse', 'Mutation']
---

## Gene ANKK1

### Genetics Position
ANKK1 is located at chromosome 11q22.3 and spans approximately 60 kb.

### Pathology 
The ANKK1 gene has been associated with several psychiatric disorders, including addiction vulnerability and personality traits. There is also evidence showing a potential role in neuropsychiatric and metabolic disorders.

### Function
ANKK1 codes for a protein called ankyrin repeat and kinase domain containing protein 1 (ANKK1), also known as receptor activity-modifying protein 1 (RAMP1). The exact function of ANKK1 is unclear, but it is believed to play a role in the regulation of dopamine neurotransmission.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 494
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 255239
- Ensembl: ENSG00000204107
- OMIM: 608166
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NFF5
- Aliases: RAMP1, ANKK1, FLJ20671, pp140, receptor-activity modifying protein 1, and various other synonyms.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are multiple common AA mutations found in ANKK1. For instance, the most well-known one is the Taq1A polymorphism rs1800497. The mutations lead to changes in the protein's function, which could be associated with related psychiatric disorders, as mentioned above. 

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Currently, there is no information on somatic SNVs/InDels in ANKK1.

### Related Disease
There is ample evidence showing ANKK1's association with substance use disorder (SUD) and related behaviors. Additionally, recent studies indicate that ANKK1 is also linked to personality traits and neuropsychiatric and metabolic disorders.

### Treatment and Prognosis
The potential treatments for the disorders associated with ANKK1 mutations aren't fully established yet.

### Drug Response
No known drugs directly target ANKK1. However, various drugs have been found to affect dopamine neurotransmission, whose expression is controlled by ANKK1. 

### Related Research papers
- Author Name: Li MD, Ma JZ, Beuten J, ABAD-GALLEGOS JAC, Payne TJ, Lou XY, Garcia V, Duenas AS, Crews KM, Elston RC
DOI: [10.1111/j.1369-1600.2008.01013.x]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1369-1600.2008.01013.x))
- Author Name: Yan H, Tian HX, Qiao L, Zhang Y, Yan WR, Liang Y
DOI: [10.3748/wjg.v24.i36.4146]([Click](https://dx.doi.org/10.3748%2Fwjg.v24.i36.4146))
- Author Name: Filbey FM, Yezhuvath U, Boyd B, Boettiger CA
DOI: [10.1016/j.biopsych.2017.01.014]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopsych.2017.01.014))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**