---
title: "UBE3A"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information on UBE3A"
tags: ['GeneInformation', 'UBE3A', 'NeurodevelopmentalDisorders', 'AngelmanSyndrome', 'SynapticPlasticity', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugDevelopment', 'RelatedPapers']
---

## Gene Information on UBE3A

### Genetic Position
UBE3A is located on the long (q) arm of chromosome 15 at position 11.2.

### Pathology
Mutations in UBE3A can lead to a range of neurodevelopmental disorders, including Angelman syndrome and various forms of autism.

### Function
The UBE3A gene encodes the E6-AP ubiquitin ligase protein, which is responsible for the degradation of specific protein substrates. In the nervous system, UBE3A plays a critical role in synaptic plasticity, which is thought to underlie learning and memory processes.

### External IDs, Genomic Location, and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 12429
- NCBI Entrez ID: 7337
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000114062
- OMIM ID: 601623
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q05086
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 15q11.2-q12

Aliases:
- Angelman syndrome, chromosome 15q11-q13 deletion syndrome
- E6-AP ubiquitin-protein ligase
- MGC12685
- HPVE6A-binding protein 1
- HECT-type ubiquitin transferase E6-AP
- UBE3A-ATS

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
The AA mutation list for the UBE3A gene includes various types of mutations, including missense, nonsense, frameshift, and splice site mutations. Here are a few examples:

- p.Arg43Cys (rs80338794)
- p.Trp873Ter (rs878853354)
- p.Glu303Lys (rs80356404)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels reported for the UBE3A gene, including:

- rs10630973
- rs4647949
- rs17023825

### Related Disease
Mutations in the UBE3A gene are associated with several neurodevelopmental disorders, including:

- Angelman syndrome
- Autism spectrum disorders
- Epilepsy
- Intellectual disability

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for Angelman syndrome or other neurodevelopmental disorders associated with UBE3A mutations. Treatment usually involves managing the symptoms of the disorder and providing supportive care.

### Drug Response
There is currently no specific drug or medication developed for the treatment of Angelman syndrome or other neurodevelopmental disorders associated with UBE3A mutations. However, research is ongoing to identify potential targets for drug development.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Angelman Syndrome 
- Author Name: Bird, L. M.
- DOI Link: 10.1056/NEJMcp2025744

- Subject: UBE3A and Angelman syndrome
- Author Name: Mabb, A. M. et al.
- DOI Link: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070918-050424

- Subject: Insights into the pathogenesis and treatment of Angelman syndrome
- Author Name: Tan, W. H. et al.
- DOI Link: 10.1038/s41583-020-0344-9

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**