---
title: "HBB"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: HBB"
tags: ['HBB', 'BetaGlobin', 'Hemoglobinopathies', 'SickleCellDisease', 'BetaThalassemia', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: HBB

## Genetic Position
The HBB gene is located on chromosome 11 (11p15.4).

## Pathology
The HBB gene encodes for the beta-globin protein, which is a component of hemoglobin. Mutations in this gene can cause hemoglobinopathies, including sickle cell disease and beta-thalassemia.

## Function
The beta-globin protein is an essential component of hemoglobin, which is responsible for transporting oxygen throughout the body. The HBB gene provides instructions for creating the beta-globin protein, which is an important component of the hemoglobin molecule.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: HBB
- NCBI Entrez: 3043
- Ensembl: ENSG00000244734
- OMIM: 141900
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P68871

Aliases: BE3, beta-globin, MGC141902

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
| AA Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| ------- | ------------ | ------- |
| E7V | Pathogenic | rs33930165 |
| E6V | Pathogenic | rs33931746 |
| E7Q | Pathogenic | rs121912627 |
| E6D | Pathogenic | rs121912631 |
| E121K | Pathogenic | rs121912630 |
| V23E | Pathogenic | rs774817351 |
| IVS1-1G>A | Pathogenic | rs398123355 |
| E7A | Benign | rs33930167 |
| E41K | Benign | rs33931745 |
| A15T | Benign | rs33931674 |
| V15M | Uncertain Significance | rs55934296 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels in the HBB gene with dbSNP IDs.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the HBB gene can cause several hemoglobinopathies, including sickle cell disease and beta-thalassemia.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment options for sickle cell disease and beta-thalassemia vary based on disease severity and may include blood transfusions, bone marrow transplants, and medication. Prognosis also varies based on disease severity, but early diagnosis and proper management can improve health outcomes for individuals with these conditions.

## Drug Response
Individuals with sickle cell disease may respond to hydroxyurea, a medication that can increase fetal hemoglobin production, which can help improve symptoms. 

## Related Papers
- Higgs DR, Engel JD, Stamatoyannopoulos G. Thalassaemia. Lancet. 2012 Mar 17;379(9813):373-83. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60283-8. Epub 2012 Jan 24. PMID: 22277089; PMCID: PMC3369512.
- Steinberg MH. Sickle cell anemia, the first molecular disease: overview of molecular etiology, pathophysiology, and therapeutic approaches. ScientificWorldJournal. 2008 Oct 31;8:1295-324. doi: 10.1100/tsw.2008.157. PMID: 18949163; PMCID: PMC5908180.
- Weatherall DJ. The inherited diseases of hemoglobin are an emerging global health burden. Blood. 2010 Feb 18;115(7):4331-6. doi: 10.1182/blood-2010-01-251348. Epub 2010 Jan 7. PMID: 20056796; PMCID: PMC3839124.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**