---
title: "ALDOA"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information: ALDOA"
tags: ['ALDOA', 'GeneticInformation', 'Glycolysis', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'References']
---

# Gene Information: ALDOA

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 16
- Genomic Coordinates: 1,259,266-1,287,933

## Pathology
ALDOA is known to be associated with several diseases such as:
- Glycogen Storage Disease XIII
- Hereditary Erythrocyte Pyruvate Kinase Deficiency
- Fluoride Poisoning
- Alzheimer Disease Type 2

## Function 
ALDOA encodes for aldolase A, which is the muscle-specific isoform of aldolase enzyme that catalyzes the fourth step in glycolysis. It plays an essential role in metabolism by converting glucose to pyruvate.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 416
- NCBI Entrez: 226
- Ensembl: ENSG00000085441
- OMIM: 103850
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P04075
- Aliases: ALDA, ALDA1, GSD12

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Val44Ile - Missense Mutation - rs121913258
- p.Glu277Lys - Missense Mutation - rs121913259
- p.Leu306Met - Missense Mutation - rs121913260
- p.Gln342His - Missense Mutation - rs28936694
- p.Glu187Gly - Missense Mutation - rs76645211

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.130G>A - Somatic Mutation - rs76723628
- c.124C>T - Somatic Mutation - rs76980489
- c.98A>G - Somatic Mutation - rs76218788

## Related Diseases
- Glycogen storage disease XIII
- Hereditary erythrocyte pyruvate kinase deficiency
- Fluoride poisoning
- Alzheimer disease type 2

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no cure for glycogen storage disease XIII or hereditary erythrocyte pyruvate kinase deficiency. Treatment is generally symptomatic. 
- Fluoride poisoning usually requires immediate medical attention. 
- Treatment for Alzheimer disease type 2 is symptomatic, with a focus on managing symptoms and improving the patient’s quality of life.

## Drug Response
- There is no known drug response for ALDOA gene.

## References
- Kanno et al. (2017). [Molecular mechanisms of pathogenic mutations in genes encoding enzymes involved in the purine metabolism](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymgme.2016.09.006))
- ENSEMBL: [ENSG00000085441](https://www.ensembl.org/Homo_sapiens/Gene/Summary?db=core;g=ENSG00000085441;r=16:1259266-1287933))
- NCBI: [ALDOA gene](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/226))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**