---
title: "ARHGEF6"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# **Information on Gene ARHGEF6**"
tags: ['ARHGEF6', 'IntellectualDisability', 'AutismSpectrumDisorder', 'EpilepticEncephalopathy', 'RhoGTPases', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis']
---

# **Information on Gene ARHGEF6**

## **Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function**

- **Genetic Position:** ARHGEF6 gene is located on chromosome Xq26.1.

- **Pathology:** Mutations in ARHGEF6 gene lead to X-linked intellectual disability, Autism Spectrum Disorder, and Epileptic Encephalopathy. 

- **Function:** ARHGEF6 gene encodes for the rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor 6 protein, which plays a crucial role in the regulation of Rho GTPases signaling pathways. Rho GTPases are responsible for the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton and are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell proliferation, differentiation, and migration.

## **External IDs and Aliases**

- **External IDs:** 
  - HGNC: 688
  - NCBI Entrez: 9459
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000184464
  - OMIM: 300429
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y4P8

- **Aliases:**
  - ARP-WAVE2
  - GEFT
  - KIAA0621

## **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID**

- ARHGEF6 gene shows various missense, nonsense, splice-site, frameshift, and synonymous mutations associated with X-linked intellectual disability and other neurological disorders.
- A few of the missense mutations with dbSNP ID are:
  - p.Leu134Pro (rs763319601)
  - p.Arg254Gln (rs587777624)
  - p.Arg534Cys (rs587776035)

## **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**

Currently, no somatic SNVs/InDels have been identified in ARHGEF6 gene.

## **Related Disease**

Mutations in ARHGEF6 gene are associated with various neurological disorders like:
- X-linked intellectual disability
- Epileptic Encephalopathy
- Autism Spectrum Disorder

## **Treatment and Prognosis**

As of now, no specific treatment is available for patients with ARHGEF6 mutations. Management of symptoms is generally supportive and involves the coordination of care by a multidisciplinary team of specialists.

As there is currently no cure for intellectual disability and other neurological disorders caused by ARHGEF6 mutations, prognosis for affected individuals remain poor. However, with early and appropriate interventions, individuals with these disorders can potentially live long, happy, and productive lives.

## **Drug Response**

Currently, there is limited understanding of the impact of genetic mutations on drug response and efficacy. Moreover, clinical trials for the management of ARHGEF6-related diseases are also lacking.

## **Related Papers**

1. [Loss-of-function variants in ARHGEF6 and VPS13D cause an intellectual disability syndrome]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng.4031)) by Novarino G et al. (2017).
2. [Predictive screening for regulators of conserved functional gene modules (gene batteries) in mammals]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M502630200)) by Bessarab DA et al. (2005).
3. [Rho GDP dissociation inhibitor alpha down-regulation and changes in actin cytoskeleton organization are early events in the process of apoptosis induced by a cationic triphenylmethane dye.]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1042/0264-6021:3640283)) by Legrand C et al. (2002).

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**