---
title: "EYS"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene EYS"
tags: ['GeneEYS', 'RetinitisPigmentosa', 'VisualImpairment', 'InheritedDisease', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'GeneTherapy', 'VisualAids']
---

## Gene EYS

- The EYS (eyes shut homolog) gene encodes a protein necessary for normal vision. It is involved in the structure and function of photoreceptor cells in the retina, allowing for the detection of light and processing of visual information.
- Gene function: Necessary for normal vision.
- External IDs: HGNC:17895, Ensembl:ENSG00000138621, OMIM:612424, NCBI Entrez:346007, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:Q5T7S3
- Aliases: RP25, USH2D, FLJ32356

### Mutations

- AA mutation list: EYS mutations are associated with autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa (RP).
- Mutation types: Missense, nonsense, frameshift, splicing.
- dbSNP IDs: Some reported mutations include p.Arg1344Gln, c.8546+1G>A, c.6268delT, c.8927C>T.

### Related Diseases

- EYS mutations have been implicated in the development of autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa (RP), a rare inherited disease causing progressive vision loss. 
- RP leads to the degeneration of the retina's light-sensitive cells, causing night blindness and eventual tunnel vision or total blindness.

### Treatment and Prognosis

- There is currently no known cure for RP. Treatment may involve the use of visual aids, low vision rehabilitation, and gene therapy. 
- Prognosis for those with RP varies depending on the severity and progression of the disease.

### Drug Response

- Currently, there are no known drugs to reverse or slow the progression of RP caused by EYS mutations.

### Related papers

- Subject: The genetics of inherited retinal disease
- Author: Wang DY, Chan WM
- DOI: 10.3109/13816810.2012.700423

- Subject: EYS mutations causing autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa: changes of Retinal structure and function with disease progression
- Author: Bocquet B, et al.
- DOI: 10.1167/iovs.13-12321

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**