---
title: "SCARB1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SCARB1"
tags: ['SCARB1', 'CholesterolMetabolism', 'LipidDisorders', 'HDLDeficiency', 'Atherosclerosis', 'ProteinFunction', 'Mutation', 'TreatmentOptions']
---

# Information about Gene SCARB1

## Genetic Position
The SCARB1 gene is located on chromosome 12 at the position q24.31.

## Pathology and Function
The SCARB1 gene produces a protein called scavenger receptor class B type 1 (SR-BI), which is involved in the uptake of cholesterol by the liver. It plays a crucial role in cholesterol metabolism and is also involved in the uptake of other lipoproteins. Mutations in the SCARB1 gene have been associated with disorders of lipid metabolism such as high-density lipoprotein deficiency and atherosclerosis.

## Gene Information
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 10529
    - NCBI Entrez: 949
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000110660
    - OMIM: 601040
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8WTV0

- Aliases: SRBI, CD36L1, CLA-1, L-SR-BI, SCARB

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID 
- G1051A: p.Gly351Ser [rs5888]
- C1761T: p.Arg587Ter [rs4238001]
- C2168T: p.Thr723Met [rs10846744]

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No information available.

## Related Disease
- High-density lipoprotein deficiency
- Atherosclerosis

## Treatment and Prognosis
There are currently no specific treatments targeted at SCARB1 gene mutations. Treatment options for high-density lipoprotein deficiency and atherosclerosis include lifestyle changes, medications, and surgery depending on the severity of the condition.

## Drug Response
No information available.

## Related Papers
- Riwanto M, Rohrer L, Roschitzki B, et al. Altered activation of endothelial anti- and proapoptotic pathways by high-density lipoprotein from patients with coronary artery disease: role of high-density lipoprotein-proteome remodeling. Circulation. 2013;127(8):891-904. doi: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.112.112118.
- Vaisar T, Pennathur S, Green PS, et al. Shotgun proteomics implicates protease inhibition and complement activation in the antiinflammatory properties of HDL. J Clin Invest. 2007;117(3):746-756. doi: 10.1172/JCI26206.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**