---
title: "HUWE1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene HUWE1:"
tags: ['HUWE1', 'E3UbiquitinProteinLigase', 'IntellectualDisability', 'AutismSpectrumDisorders', 'CellularRegulation', 'MissenseMutation', 'SomaticVariations', 'SupportiveTreatment']
---

# Information about Gene HUWE1:

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function:

- **Genetic Position**: Chromosome Xq11.2 (NC_000023.11)
- **Pathology**: Mutations in HUWE1 gene are associated with intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorders, and other neurological impairments.
- **Function**: HUWE1 encodes an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase enzyme, which plays a vital role in regulating several cellular processes like DNA damage repair, gene expression, cell cycle progression, and apoptosis. The protein is involved in the degradation of several key cellular regulators such as p53, cyclin D1, and c-Myc.

## External IDs and Aliases:

- **External IDs**: 
   - HGNC: 25856
   - NCBI Entrez: 7528
   - Ensembl: ENSG00000078399
   - OMIM: 300697
   - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q7Z6Z7
   
- **Aliases**: ARF-BP1, HECTH9, LASU1, UREB1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type:

- The following are some of the common Amino Acid (AA) mutations observed in HUWE1 gene with their mutation types and dbSNP IDs:
   - L1349F - Missense mutation - rs546784698
   - R1409W - Missense mutation - rs880269333
   - L1460P - Missense mutation - rs1057519590
   - R374Q - Missense mutation - rs267608702
   - G805D - Missense mutation - rs202035324
  
## Somatic SNVs/InDels:

- There are several somatic Single Nucleotide Variations (SNVs) and Insertions/Deletions (InDels) reported in HUWE1 gene with their dbSNP IDs.

## Related Diseases:

- Mutations in HUWE1 gene have been linked to various diseases and syndromes such as:
   - Mental retardation, X-linked syndromic, Turner type (MRXST)
   - Juberg-Marsidi-Brooks syndrome (JMB)
   - Mental retardation syndromic, Claes-Jensen type (MRXSCJ)
   - Intellectual disability, X-linked 17 (MRX17)

## Treatment and Prognosis:

- There is no cure for genetic disorders caused by mutations in HUWE1 gene. Treatment is often supportive and focused on managing the symptoms associated with the disease. The prognosis depends on the severity of the disorder.

## Drug Response:

- There is limited information available on drug response for genetic disorders caused by HUWE1 gene mutations.

## Related Papers:

- **Subject**: Novel variants in HUWE1 gene identified in patients with syndromic X-linked intellectual disability by whole-exome sequencing.
   - **Author Name**: Wu Y et al.
   - **DOI**: 10.1186/s13039-019-0508-1 
- **Subject**: HUWE1 missense mutation causes Juberg-Marsidi-Like Syndrome in a Chinese patient with intellectual disability.
   - **Author Name**: Wang L et al.
   - **DOI**: 10.1111/cge.13602

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**