---
title: "LMOD3"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene Information"
tags: ['LMOD3', 'CytoskeletalProtein', 'SmoothMuscleContraction', 'ActinFilaments', 'NoKnownDiseases', 'NoTreatment', 'NoPrognosis', 'NoDrugResponse']
---

### Gene Information
Gene name: LMOD3  
Location: Chromosome 3 (3q13.31)  
Aliases: Leiomodin-3, LMOD3a

### Function
Leiomodin-3 is a cytoskeletal protein that plays a role in the regulation of smooth muscle contraction. It is involved in the organization of actin filaments and may contribute to the stability and polymerization of actin.

### External IDs and Sites
HGNC ID: 30337  
NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 64798  
Ensembl ID: ENSG00000168035  
OMIM ID: 616808  
UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9H8Y1

### AA Mutation List and dbSNP IDs
No AA Mutations have been identified in LMOD3.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels and dbSNP IDs
No somatic SNVs/InDels have been identified in LMOD3.

### Related Diseases
No pathogenic variants in LMOD3 have been reported to date, and no known diseases are specifically associated with variations in this gene.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no specific treatment or prognosis associated with variations in LMOD3.

### Drug Response
No information is available on drug response and variations in LMOD3.

### Related Papers
- Author(s): Littlefield, R., Almenar-Queralt, A., Buck, E., et al.
  - Title: "Severe cardiomyopathy in mice lacking one or both LMOD2 and LMOD3 genes"
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2015.01.006
- Author(s): Conley, C.A., Fritz-Six, K.L., Almenar-Queralt, A., et al.
  - Title: "Leiomodins: larger members of the tropomodulin (Tmod) gene family"
  - DOI: 10.1096/fj.01-0605fje

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**