---
title: "MFN2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genomic Information of Gene MFN2"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'MFN2', 'MitochondrialFusion', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'CharcotMarieToothDisease', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Genomic Information of Gene MFN2
## Pathology and Function
* **Gene Name**: Mitofusin 2 (MFN2)
* **Function**: MFN2 plays a crucial role in mitochondrial fusion, a process that maintains the integrity and proper functioning of mitochondria in cells. In addition to its role in mitochondrial dynamics, it has been shown to mediate the interaction between mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), as well as regulate the transport of mitochondria along microtubules.
* **Related Diseases**: MFN2 mutations have been associated with a range of neurological disorders, including Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2A (CMT2A), hereditary motor neuropathy, optic atrophy, and other peripheral neuropathies.

## Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
* **External IDs**: 
  * HGNC: 7128
  * NCBI Entrez Gene: 9927
  * Ensembl: ENSG00000147586
  * OMIM: 608507
  * UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O95140
* **Genomic Location**: Chromosome 1 (1p36.22)

## Mutations and Variations
* **AA Mutations**: A list of amino acid mutations in MFN2 can be found in [UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/O95140#mutations)
* **Mutation Type and dbSNP ID**:
  * Missense mutations: rs387906782, rs758778358, rs74315382, rs119827194, rs143097834, rs201739931
  * Frameshift mutations: rs797045062, rs121908013, rs797044915
  * Nonsense mutations: rs1553238775, rs1553328173, rs797044891
  
* **Somatic SNVs/InDels and dbSNP ID**: There are currently no reported somatic single nucleotide variations (SNVs) or insertions/deletions (InDels) for MFN2 in dbSNP.

## Treatment, Prognosis, and Drug Response
* There is currently no cure for diseases caused by MFN2 mutations. Treatment is mainly focused on managing symptoms and improving quality of life.
* Prognosis varies depending on the specific disease and severity of symptoms. Some individuals with MFN2 mutations may experience mild symptoms, while others may have a more severe disease course.
* There are currently no FDA-approved drugs specifically for treating CMT2A or other MFN2-associated disorders. However, some medications may be used to manage symptoms, such as pain and muscle weakness.

## Related Papers
* Subject: Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2A 
* Author: Pipis, M.
* DOI: [10.1007/s00415-018-8881-7](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00415-018-8881-7)

* Subject: Mitofusin 2-related neuropathies: a clinician's overview
* Author: Cortese, A.
* DOI: [10.1136/jnnp-2018-318711](https://doi.org/10.1136/jnnp-2018-318711)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**