---
title: "DUOXA2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene DUOXA2"
tags: ['DUOXA2', 'Hypothyroidism', 'ReactiveOxygenSpecies', 'MaturationFactor', 'ThyroidHormoneReplacement', 'CompoundHeterozygosity', 'RespiratoryInfections', 'GeneticMutation']
---

# Information about Gene DUOXA2

## Summary
DUOXA2 is a gene that encodes a protein called dual oxidase maturation factor 2. This protein is involved in the maturation process of the oxidase enzyme, which produces reactive oxygen species (ROS) that play important roles in cellular signalling and host defence. Defects in DUOXA2 have been linked to thyroid dysfunction, as well as to a susceptibility to respiratory infections.

## Function for Gene
DUOXA2 plays a key role in the maturation process of the dual oxidase enzyme, which produces reactive oxygen species (ROS). These ROS play crucial roles in various biological processes including cellular signalling, host defence and immune regulation.

## External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- HGNC: HGNC:31402
- NCBI Entrez: 200576
- Ensembl: ENSG00000142568
- OMIM: 613555
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N551

Aliases: CaRF; CaRF-like; DUOXA2

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.G472A (p.G158S) rs150817338
- c.247C>T (p.R83X) rs61734029 

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic mutations in DUOXA2.

## Related Disease
Defects and mutations in DUOXA2 have been associated with congenital hypothyroidism, an inherited hypothyroidism in newborns and infants. DUOXA2 defects can result in moderate to severe hypothyroidism, and infants may present with severe developmental delays, intellectual disability, and other symptoms including difficulty feeding and breathing. DUOXA2 mutations have also been linked to a susceptibility to respiratory infections.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for DUOXA2-deficient hypothyroidism involves a lifelong thyroid hormone replacement therapy. However, because DUOXA2 mutations often involve compound heterozygosity, in which two different mutations are present on the same gene, the clinical course of DUOXA2 deficiency may be different depending on the specific combination of mutations.

## Drug Response
There are currently no known drugs that directly target DUOXA2. Treatment for DUOXA2-deficient hypothyroidism involves a thyroid hormone replacement therapy.

## Related Papers
- Ramesh Babu CS, Vellaichamy E. Mutation in DUOXA2 gene: a rare cause of congenital hypothyroidism. J Clin Diagn Res. 2018;12(8):FD01-FD03. doi:10.7860/JCDR/2018/34653.11983
- Porollo A, Meller J. Prediction-based fingerprints of oxidative phosphorylation. BMC Bioinformatics. 2007;8 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S5. doi:10.1186/1471-2105-8-S1-S5

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**