---
title: "OPTC"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: OPTC"
tags: ['OPTC', 'GeneFunction', 'GenomicLocation', 'Mutation', 'Glaucoma', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene: OPTC
- Function: OPTC encodes for the protein Opticin which is a small, extracellular matrix glycoprotein and is predominantly expressed in the eye. It plays a role in collagen fibrillogenesis and also regulates angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis.
- External IDs: 
    - Gene ID: 4983
    - Genomic location: Chr1:221416196-221417381
    - Aliases: OLP

- External sites:
    - HGNC: 8509
    - NCBI Entrez: 4983
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000143220
    - OMIM: 605237
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UBK5

- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
    - c.190T>C (p.Cys64Arg) rs121908571
    - c.341C>T (p.Arg114Trp) rs104893737
    - c.397G>A (p.Gly133Glu) rs104893738
    - c.433T>C (p.Leu145Pro) rs104893739

- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
    - c.190T>C (p.Cys64Arg) rs121908571
    - c.341C>T (p.Arg114Trp) rs104893737

- Related disease: OPTC has been associated with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), a common form of glaucoma leading to optic nerve damage and vision loss.

- Treatment and prognosis: The treatment for POAG includes medications, laser trabeculoplasty and surgery. However, the prognosis of primary open-angle glaucoma depends on the severity of damage at diagnosis and the response to treatment.

- Drug response: Currently, there is no drug specifically targeting OPTC for the treatment of POAG.

- Related papers:
    - Subject: Pathogenic Variants in the OPTC Gene Predispose to Autosomal Dominant Hereditary Glaucoma
    - Author name: Yali Dou et al.
    - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ophtha.2021.04.036)

    - Subject: Genetic Association of OPTC Variants with Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis
    - Author name: Shameema Sikder et al.
    - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/diagnostics11030492)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**