---
title: "BCL10"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene BCL10 "
tags: ['BCL10', 'NFkappaB', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'Cancer', 'TargetedTherapies', 'Immunosuppressants', 'SignalTransduction', 'ScaffoldProtein']
---

# Gene BCL10 

## Information 

BCL10 is a protein-coding gene with a genomic location at the chromosomal band 1p22.2. It is also known by the following aliases: CIPER, IMD12, CARMEN, CLAP, and hCLAP. BCL10 is associated with various molecular functions such as protein binding, signal transduction, and enzyme inhibitor activity. 

## Function 

BCL10 is known to play a crucial role in NF-kappa-B activation and regulation of B- and T-cell responses. The protein acts as a scaffold protein in a signaling complex composed of CARD11, MALT1, and itself, ultimately leading to the activation of NF-kappa-B.

## External IDs 

HGNC: 944

NCBI Entrez: 8915

Ensembl: ENSG00000135476

OMIM: 603517

UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O95999

## Mutations 

- p.Met12Val (rs764457474)
- p.Arg11His (rs397507888)
- p.Gly56Val (rs777352737)

## Related Diseases 

BCL10 abnormalities have been reported to be involved in various cancers such as lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In addition, BCL10 has been associated with autoimmune diseases such as Crohn's disease and psoriasis.

## Treatment and Prognosis 

Targeted therapies that inhibit the BCL10 signaling pathway are in the early stages of development, and clinical trials are currently underway as potential therapies for various cancers. However, the prognosis for individuals with BCL10-related diseases varies widely depending on the specific condition and other clinical factors.

## Drug Response 

There is a lack of information on the drug response of BCL10-related diseases. Currently, no targeted therapies for BCL10-related autoimmune diseases are available, and the treatment approach often involves the use of non-specific immunosuppressants.

## Related Papers 

- **Subject:** Targeting BCL10 in lymphoma
- **Author:** H. Deng, et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1080/13543784.2018.1560206

- **Subject:** BCL10 and autoimmune diseases
- **Author:** A. Arimoto-Miyamoto, et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1007/s12016-018-8721-9

- **Subject:** BCL10 in gastric cancer
- **Author:** J. Li, et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1007/s00432-017-2473-5

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**