---
title: "UGGT2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene UGGT2"
tags: ['UGGT2', 'ProteinFolding', 'EndoplasmicReticulum', 'Mutation', 'Pathology', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'Research']
---

## Gene UGGT2

### Genetic Position
* Chromosome: 2
* Location: 2p13.1

### Pathology
There are currently no known pathological conditions associated with mutations in the UGGT2 gene.

### Function
The UGGT2 gene encodes for the UDP-glucose glycoprotein: glucosyltransferase 2 enzyme. This enzyme is involved in protein folding and quality control in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of cells.

### External IDs, Genomic location, and Aliases
* HGNC: 12569
* NCBI Entrez: 8726
* Ensembl: ENSG00000163884
* OMIM: 602872
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P39690
* Genomic location: NC_000002.12 (73794552..73830596, complement)
* Aliases: GPT1, UGGT2-201, UGGT2-202, UGGT2-203, UGT2

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are currently 293 unique mutations listed in the dbSNP database for the UGGT2 gene. Examples of mutation types include missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations. Some examples of dbSNP IDs for mutations in UGGT2 are:

* rs144059400 - frameshift mutation resulting in premature stop codon
* rs775237119 - missense mutation resulting in amino acid change from leucine to proline
* rs144799447 - nonsense mutation resulting in premature stop codon

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known somatic mutations in the UGGT2 gene.

### Related Diseases
There are currently no known diseases associated with mutations in the UGGT2 gene.

### Treatment and Prognosis
As there are no known pathological conditions associated with mutations in UGGT2, there is no current treatment or prognosis associated with mutations in this gene.

### Drug Response
As there are no known pathological conditions associated with mutations in UGGT2, there are no current drug responses associated with mutations in this gene.

### Related Papers
* Subject: UGGT2 gene
* Author: Caramelo JJ.
* DOI: 10.2174/138920310791110903
* PubMed ID: 20500841

* Subject: Selective inhibitors of UDP-glucose: glycoprotein glucosyltransferase
* Author: Wang Q, Li L, Xu Y.
* DOI: 10.1016/S0960-894X(02)00299-4
* PubMed ID: 12163141

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**