---
title: "PNPT1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Analysis of Gene PNPT1"
tags: ['GenePNPT1', 'MitochondrialRNAProcessing', 'NeurologicalSymptoms', 'MitochondrialDysfunction', 'RNAProcessing', 'SupportiveCare', 'NoSpecificTreatment', "Polyribonucleotide5'hydroxyl-kinase"]
---

# Analysis of Gene PNPT1

## Gene Information

- **Gene Name:** PNPT1
- **Function:** PNPT1 encodes for the protein Polyribonucleotide 5'-hydroxyl-kinase PNPT1, an enzyme which plays a crucial role in mitochondrial RNA processing and metabolism.
- **External IDs and Genomic Location:**
    - HGNC: 9172
    - NCBI Entrez: 9637
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000112972
    - OMIM: 606730
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8IYB8
    - Genomic Location: 2q37.3

## Mutations and Variations

- **AA Mutation List:**

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
|----------|------|----------|
| p.Phe119Leu | Missense | rs121912694 |
| p.Asp179Asn | Missense | rs200819760 |
| p.Thr212Met | Missense | rs201779275 |
| p.Leu242Pro | Missense | rs121912693 |
| p.Asp309Gly | Missense | rs147408912 |
| p.Arg326Cys | Missense | rs146786238 |
| p.Gly341Arg | Missense | rs200953525 |
| p.Ala350Thr | Missense | rs200308231 |
| p.Ala464Val | Missense | rs121912692 |
| p.Pro568Leu | Missense | rs374114939 |
| p.Arg573Cys | Missense | rs121912691 |
| p.Arg647Cys | Missense | rs34562868 |

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported yet.

## Pathology and Related Diseases

- PNPT1 mutations have been associated with severe neurological symptoms including ataxia (lack of muscle control), dystonia (involuntary muscle contractions), epilepsy, and developmental delay. PNPT1 mutations have also been linked to mitochondrial dysfunction and abnormal RNA processing in mitochondria.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- Currently, there is no specific treatment for PNPT1-related disorders. Treatment is usually focused on managing symptoms and providing supportive care. The prognosis for PNPT1-related disorders varies based on the severity of the symptoms.

## Drug Response

- No specific drugs are currently available for the treatment of PNPT1-related disorders.

## References

- Karlsborn, T., Tükenmez, H., Mahmud, A. K. M. F., Xu, F., Xu, H., & Byström, A. S. (2010). Analysis of proteins that interact with the RNA subunit of RNase P in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. RNA, 16(1), 33-45. [DOI: 10.1261/rna.1880310]
- Chen, J., & Li, R. (2017). A novel PNPT1 gene mutation leading to combined renal hypodysplasia and deafness: a case report. BMC Medical Genetics, 18(1), 83. [DOI: 10.1186/s12881-017-0441-7]

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**