---
title: "NDUFAF4"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene NDUFAF4"
tags: ['NDUFAF4', 'LeighSyndrome', 'MitochondrialRespiratoryChain', 'MissenseVariant', 'FrameshiftVariant', 'StopGainVariant', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene NDUFAF4
- **Genetic position**: Chromosome Xq24
- **Pathology**: The NDUFAF4 gene is implicated in the onset of Leigh Syndrome, which is a severe neurological disorder.
- **Function**: The NDUFAF4 gene encodes a protein that is part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I, which is involved in ATP production. The protein helps in the assembly of the complex and stabilizes other subunits of the complex.
- **External IDs**: 
    - HGNC: 25812
    - NCBI Entrez: 285175
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000185313
    - OMIM: 300544
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N1S0
- **AA mutation list with mutation type and dbSNP ID**:
    - p.Gln11Arg (missense variant, rs374230216)
    - p.Arg131Trp (missense variant, rs761770176)
    - p.Arg131Gly (missense variant, rs751533481)
    - p.Arg284* (stop-gain variant, rs587777335)
    - p.Ile163fs (frameshift variant, rs1554798101)
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**: None reported
- **Related disease**: Leigh Syndrome
- **Treatment and prognosis**: Currently, there is no cure for Leigh Syndrome and treatment is mainly focused on managing the symptoms and providing supportive care. The prognosis of Leigh Syndrome patients is poor, and the disease often leads to death.
- **Drug response**: Not well-established, but Coenzyme Q10, Thiamine, and Creatine supplementation have been suggested as potential treatments for Leigh Syndrome.
- **Papers**: 
    - Subject: Genetic characterization of Leah Syndrome in Saudi Patients
    - Author name(s): Anwar et al.
    - DOI link: [10.11648/j.jmg.20210102.12]([Click](https://doi.org/10.11648/j.jmg.20210102.12)
    
    - Subject: NDUFAF4 variants are associated with Leigh Syndrome and cause mitochondrial complex I assembly impairment
    - Author name(s): Haack et al.
    - DOI link: [10.1172/JCI67362]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1172/JCI67362)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**