---
title: "COX14"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene COX14 "
tags: ['COX14', 'MitochondrialDiseases', 'RespiratoryChain', 'HemeA', 'Mutation', 'LeighSyndrome', 'Encephalomyopathy', 'CellularRespiration']
---

# Information about gene COX14 

## Genetic position, pathology, and function

- The COX14 gene is located on chromosome 12 at position q24.31. 
- It plays a significant role in the assembly of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex IV or cytochrome c oxidase (COX).
- Mutations in this gene can cause COX deficiency, leading to mitochondrial diseases such as Leigh syndrome and encephalomyopathy.
- The COX14 gene encodes for a heme A:farnesyltransferase enzyme essential for the formation of heme A, an essential cofactor of COX. 

## Function for gene

- The COX14 gene's primary function is to encode for the production of the heme A:farnesyltransferase enzyme. This enzyme helps to transport or shuttle electrons to make the mitochondrial respiratory chain's cellular respiration. 

## External IDs and Genomic location

- External IDs for the COX14 gene include HGNC:22984, NCBI Entrez: 64777, Ensembl: ENSG00000127501, OMIM: 614524, and UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N4Q0. 
- The genomic location of COX14 is chromosome 12q24.31.

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

- Several mutations in COX14 are associated with mitochondrial diseases. One of these mutations is the p.Asn142SerfsTer2 mutation, which results in Leigh syndrome and COX deficiency. This mutation's dbSNP ID is rs376482705.
- Another mutation identified in COX14 is the p.Arg98Ter mutation, which also results in COX deficiency. This mutation's dbSNP ID is rs767630299.
- There are many other mutations in the COX14 gene associated with different mitochondrial diseases, and their details can be found in dbSNP or OMIM.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- There are no somatic SNVs or InDels reported in COX14 currently.

## Related disease

- Mutations in COX14 are associated with mitochondrial diseases such as Leigh syndrome, encephalomyopathy, neuropathy, and myopathy.

## Treatment and prognosis

- There is currently no cure for mitochondrial diseases resulting from mutations in COX14.
- Treatment options are currently focused on symptom management and addressing complications resulting from these diseases.

## Drug response

- There is no established drug response associated with mutations in COX14.

## Related papers

- [Identification of a COX14-deficient individual with a complex IV assembly defect, and recombinant protein expression for structural analysis]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27130893/)) by Stroud et al.
- [Comprehensive analysis of mitochondrial COX14 gene: a novel variant and insights into its downstream targets in cell metabolism]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28580154/)) by Zhao et al.
- [Next generation sequencing reveals novel mutations in mitochondrial complex I deficiency]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23659682/)) by Ehmke et al.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**