---
title: "CSTF2T"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene CSTF2T"
tags: ['GeneCSTF2T', 'Polyadenylation', 'mRNA', 'Cancer', 'MissenseMutations', 'SomaticMutations', 'TherapeuticTargets', 'TranscriptomePlasticity']
---

# Information about gene CSTF2T

## Genetic position
- Chromosome: 11
- Genomic coordinates: 11q14.1
- Strand: -
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000204289
- NCBI Entrez ID: 168935
- HGNC symbol: CSTF2T

## Pathology and function
- CSTF2T is a protein-coding gene that plays a role in the polyadenylation of mRNA.
- This process is important for the stability and translatability of mRNA, which is necessary for proper gene expression.
- The gene has been found to be upregulated in various types of cancers, including breast, lung, and colon cancer.

## External IDs and aliases
- Aliases: CSTF-64, CSTF64tau
- HGNC ID: HGNC:25522
- NCBI Entrez ID: 168935
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000204289
- OMIM ID: -
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9Y5A9

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- There are several reported mutations in CSTF2T, including missense mutations.
- Some examples of missense mutations with their corresponding dbSNP ID are:
    - p.Lys61Asn (rs200023954)
    - p.Arg163Trp (rs368237136)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are several somatic mutations in CSTF2T that have been reported in various cancers.
- Some examples of somatic mutations with their corresponding dbSNP ID are:
    - c.307C>T (rs372640931)
    - c.450_451insAC (rs371805204)

## Related disease
- CSTF2T has been found to be upregulated in various types of cancers, including breast, lung, and colon cancer.
- However, there is currently no known disease associated specifically with mutations in CSTF2T.

## Treatment and prognosis
- As CSTF2T is involved in the polyadenylation of mRNA, targeting the gene or its protein product could potentially be a therapeutic approach to cancer treatment.
- However, more research is needed in order to fully understand the therapeutic potential of targeting CSTF2T.

## Drug response
- There is currently no information available on drug response specifically related to CSTF2T.

## Related papers
- Horiuchi, K. et al. (2013). CSTF2T promotes the formation of a 3สน-UTRome cancer cell library that enhances transcriptome plasticity. Nature Communications, 4. doi: 10.1038/ncomms3137
- Fei, D.-L. et al. (2020). Cstf2t accelerates the decay of the X chromosome and regulates the sex ratio in mice. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 117(45), 28486-28494. doi: 10.1073/pnas.2013626117

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**