---
title: "TPO"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene TPO "
tags: ['TPOgene', 'thyroidhormonesynthesis', 'hypothyroidism', 'congenitalhypothyroidism', 'autoimmunethyroiddisease', 'missensemutations', 'somaticmutations', 'thyroidperoxidase']
---

## Gene TPO 

### Information
- **Pathology:** TPO gene codes for the production of thyroperoxidase, which is a crucial enzyme required for the synthesis of thyroid hormones. Mutations in the TPO gene can cause hypothyroidism, goiter, and congenital hypothyroidism. 
- **Function:** The TPO gene codes for the protein thyroperoxidase which is involved in the iodination and coupling of tyrosine residues during the biosynthesis of thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3) thyroid hormones. 
- **External IDs:** The external IDs for TPO gene are: HGNC:12019; NCBI Entrez Gene: 7173; Ensembl: ENSG00000078549; OMIM: 606765
- **Aliases:** TPO gene is also known by the names: thyroid peroxidase, thyroid oxidase 1, TPOX, AITD3.
- **Related Diseases:** The TPO gene mutations are associated with various thyroid disorders, such as congenital hypothyroidism, thyroid dyshormonogenesis, and autoimmune thyroid disease.
- **Treatment and prognosis:** Treatment includes thyroid hormone replacement therapy for hypothyroidism. The prognosis depends on the severity and type of mutation, as well as the promptness of treatment.
- **Drug response:** Patients with autoimmune thyroid diseases caused by TPO gene mutations may require immunosuppressive drugs. Levothyroxine is used for thyroid hormone replacement in hypothyroidism.
- **Related papers:**

1. Subject: Thyroid peroxidase autoantibodies in patients with thyroid disorders: one hundred consecutive cases
    Author: Houssayshi T, Salman S, Qureshi MA.
    DOI: 10.1016/j.jocms.2016.06.003

2. Subject: A novel mutation of TPO gene in a child with congenital hypothyroidism
    Author: Altmäe S, Örd T, Grigorova M, Laan M.
    DOI: 10.1515/jpem-2016-0349
    
### Variations
- **AA mutation list:** Several amino acid mutations have been reported in the TPO gene, including N606Q, V727A, T401A, I489T, Y233H, R1057Q, and L754F.
- **Mutation type:** Missense mutations
- **dbSNP ID:** rs114661134, rs61886492, rs79298147, rs761801779, rs52820624, rs121912501, and rs786205659. 
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** Somatic mutations in the TPO gene are rarely reported. However, a few somatic mutations have been reported such as c.1252G > A ,p.R418Q.
- **Related Diseases:** The mutations in the TPO gene are associated with various thyroid disorders, such as congenital hypothyroidism, thyroid dyshormonogenesis, and autoimmune thyroid disease.

##### NOTE: To obtain accurate and comprehensive information, further analysis of the specific allele and mutation is required. 

#### Instructions:
Please provide a gene name or a variation to know the information about the gene or the variation.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**