---
title: "POLB"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: POLB"
tags: ['POLB', 'DNArepair', 'cancer', 'prognosticbiomarker', 'chemotherapy', 'geneticinformation', 'mutation', 'drugresponse']
---

# Gene: POLB

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 8
- Location: 8p11.21
- Strand: plus strand

## Pathology
POLB gene is associated with several diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular diseases, and Alzheimer's disease.

## Function
POLB gene encodes DNA polymerase beta, which is involved in DNA repair, base excision repair, and DNA synthesis.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 9171
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 5423
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000130816
- OMIM ID: 174760
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P06746
- Aliases: DNA polymerase beta, POLB1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg137Gln: missense mutation with dbSNP ID: rs113994058
- p.Gly154Asp: missense mutation with dbSNP ID: rs1803630
- p.Asp160Asn: missense mutation with dbSNP ID: rs114444139

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.282+1G>A: splicing variant with dbSNP ID: rs121912363
- c.843G>A: missense mutation with dbSNP ID: rs199768106
- c.1095A>G: missense mutation with dbSNP ID: rs199768107

## Related Disease
POLB gene is associated with various types of cancer such as lung cancer, breast cancer, gastric cancer, and colorectal cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The expression of POLB gene is used as a prognostic biomarker for various types of cancer. Inhibition of POLB gene expression or activity is being studied for the potential treatment of cancer.

## Drug Response
There are no drugs currently approved specifically for targeting POLB gene. However, some chemotherapy drugs, such as temozolomide and cisplatin, target DNA repair and replication pathways, which can affect the activity of POLB gene.

## Related Papers
- Author: Bergoglio V, et al.
  - Title: DNA polymerase beta participates in DNA end-joining
  - DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkh878)
- Author: Srivastava AK, et al.
  - Title: Human DNA polymerase beta exhibits enhanced activity and decreased fidelity L22P and P306A mutants-structural basis of fidelity defects observed in LEH-like syndrome patients
  - DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkv1227)
- Author: Cheng L, et al.
  - Title: Downregulation of DNA polymerase β sensitizes breast cancer cells to therapy with DNA-damaging agents
  - DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/srep37877)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**