---
title: "LAMB2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for LAMB2"
tags: ['GeneLAMB2', 'LamininSubunitBeta2', 'ExtracellularMatrix', 'CongenitalMuscularDystrophy', 'MDC1C', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'NeuronalMigrationDisorder']
---

# Gene Information for LAMB2

## General Information
- **Gene Name:** LAMB2 (Laminin Subunit Beta 2)
- **Aliases:** LAMB2A
- **Function:** LAMB2 encodes for a protein called laminin-332, which is a component of the extracellular matrix that plays a role in cellular adhesion and differentiation. Specifically, laminin-332 is involved in the formation of epithelial tissues.

## Genomic Location and IDs
- **Genomic Position:** Chromosome 3: 159,163,050-159,239,468 
- **External IDs:** 
    * HGNC: 6479
    * NCBI Entrez: 3913
    * Ensembl: ENSG00000164062
    * OMIM: 150325
    * UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P55268

## Mutations
- **AA Mutation List:** 
    * p.Cys321Tyr
    * p.Arg2157*
- **Mutation Type:** Missense, Nonsense
- **dbSNP IDs:** rs28940884, rs137853123

## Somatic Mutations
- No somatic mutations have been reported for LAMB2 in the COSMIC database.

## Related Diseases
- **Congenital Muscular Dystrophy Type 1C (MDC1C):** Inherited disorder characterized by muscle weakness and wasting that begins in early childhood. Mutations in LAMB2 have been identified as a cause of MDC1C.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- The treatment and prognosis of MDC1C varies depending on the severity and extent of the symptoms. Physical therapy, orthotics, and surgery may be required in some cases.

## Drug Response
- There is no information available about drug response specific to mutations in LAMB2.

## References
- Homsy, M., et al. (2007). Mutations in LAMB2 cause a severe form of neuronal migration disorder: congenital muscular dystrophy with cobblestone lissencephaly. American Journal of Human Genetics, 81(4), 834–841. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1086/521987)
- Laminin subunit beta 2. (n.d.). UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot. Retrieved November 18, 2021, from [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/P55268)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**