---
title: "CD59"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene: CD59"
tags: ['CD59', 'ComplementSystem', 'HemolyticAnemia', 'MembranoproliferativeGlomerulonephritis', 'MissenseMutations', 'SomaticMutations', 'DrugResponse', 'TreatmentOptions']
---

### Gene: CD59

CD59 is a gene located on chromosome 11 (11p13). It encodes for a protein known as protectin which plays an important role in regulating the complement system.

### Function:
Protectin (CD59) works by inhibiting the C5b-9 complex of the complement system, which is involved in the formation of the membrane attack complex (MAC) that can damage cells. Therefore, the CD59 protein serves as an important regulator of the complement system and plays a critical role in protecting host tissue from damage.

### External IDs:
- HGNC: 1672
- NCBI Entrez: 966
- Ensembl: ENSG00000105383
- OMIM: 107271
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P13987

### Mutations:
- AA mutation list: The most common mutations in CD59 gene are missense mutations, and the most frequent are p.Gly26Asp and p.Lys41Glu.
- Mutation type: Missense mutations
- dbSNP ID: rs121907928, rs121907927

### Somatic SNVs/InDels:
There are several somatic mutations that have been identified in CD59 gene in different cancers, including lung adenocarcinoma, bladder cancer, and colorectal cancer.
- dbSNP ID: rs148110142, rs397514518, rs199469256, rs782749576

### Related Disease:
Mutations in CD59 gene have been associated with various diseases, including:
- Hemolytic anemia, CD59-mediated, with or without polyneuropathy (OMIM: 612300)
- Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis type II (OMIM: 609814)

### Treatment and Prognosis:
Currently, there is no specific treatment available for CD59-related diseases. However, there are treatments available to manage the symptoms associated with these diseases, such as blood transfusions for patients with hemolytic anemia.

### Drug Response:
There are some drugs available that have been shown to influence the complement system, which could potentially be used in the treatment of CD59-related diseases. Some of these drugs include eculizumab and ravulizumab.

### Related Papers:
- Author name: Rollins, S. A.
  - DOI link: [10.1016/j.molimm.2018.02.010](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molimm.2018.02.010))
- Author name: Lehtinen, M. J.
  - DOI link: [10.1111/j.1601-0825.2006.01260.x](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1601-0825.2006.01260.x))
- Author name: Meri, S.
  - DOI link: [10.1007/s00417-009-1272-5](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00417-009-1272-5))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**