---
title: "FTH1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene FTH1"
tags: ['GeneFTH1', 'IronHomeostasis', 'HyperferritinemiaCataractSyndrome', 'Cancer', 'MissenseMutations', 'Prognosis', 'IronChelationTherapy', 'PancreaticNeuroendocrineTumor']
---

# Gene FTH1

## Gene Information 
- **Function:** The gene FTH1 encodes for a protein called ferritin heavy chain, which plays an essential role in iron homeostasis and storage.
- **External IDs:** The gene FTH1 is located on the short arm of chromosome 11 (11p15.5) and has the following external IDs: 
    - HGNC: 3971
    - NCBI Entrez: 2495
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000182866
    - OMIM: 134790
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P02794
- **Aliases:** FHC, FTH, PLIF

## Alterations
- **AA Mutation List:** Several AA changes have been identified in the FTH1 gene. The most frequent mutations are:
    - V49M with dbSNP ID: rs1800562
    - E57K with dbSNP ID: rs1800563
    - I109T with dbSNP ID: rs61753345
- **Mutation Type:** Missense mutations
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:** Few somatic variants have been identified in the FTH1 gene. One report exists related to Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor (PNET) with multiple somatic mutations including FTH1 gene.
    - R136C with dbSNP ID: rs864309938
    - V49M with dbSNP ID: rs1800562

## Related Disease
- **Related Disease:** Alterations in the FTH1 gene have been related to the development of various conditions, including:
    - Hyperferritinemia-cataract syndrome
    - Neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer and Parkinson
    - Liver diseases
    - Cancer

## Treatment and prognosis
- **Treatment:** Although treatments have not been developed targeting the FTH1 gene, hyperferritinemia-cataract syndrome might be treated with iron chelation therapy. In cancer, treatment will be personalized based on the stage of cancer.
- **Prognosis:** Prognosis varies according to the related disease and stage of cancer. Generally, FTH1 overexpression is a poor prognostic predictor in cancer.

## Drug response
- **Drug Response:** There is no specific drug developed targeting the FTH1 gene. However, the use of iron chelation therapy for hyperferritinemia-cataract syndrome is a promising treatment option.

## References
- **Paper 1:** [Ferritin Heavy Chain (FTH1) Gene Mutations in Hyperferritinemia-Cataract Syndrome (HHCS), a Global Multicenter Study](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3193451/).) The paper provides information on the clinical features, epidemiology, and molecular characteristics of mutations in the FTH1 gene associated with HHCS.
- **Paper 2:** [Identification of somatic mutations in pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors with potential as targets for immunotherapy](https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms7604).) The paper provides information on somatic variants identified in Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor (PNET), including mutations in the FTH1 gene.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**