---
title: "DNAH5"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene DNAH5"
tags: ['Summary', 'of', 'DNAH5', 'Gene', 'Informati']
---

# Information about gene DNAH5

## Gene Information
- **Gene Symbol:** DNAH5
- **Aliases:** DNAAF1, DNAH4, Dynein Axonemal Heavy Chain 5
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 5q33.2

## Function
DNAH5 is a member of the dynein family, which is responsible for generating motility along microtubules in cells. DNAH5 encodes for a heavy chain protein in the ciliary and flagellar axonemes. DNAH5 protein, along with other dynein proteins, plays an essential role in the movement of cilia and flagella, which is critical for respiratory and reproductive system function. Mutations in DNAH5 can lead to primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD), an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by chronic respiratory tract infections, bronchiectasis, chronic sinusitis, and infertility.

## External IDs and Sites
- **HGNC ID:** 2950
- **NCBI Entrez Gene ID:** 1767
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000164604
- **OMIM ID:** 603335
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** Q3KPZ8

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Types
- p.Leu1300Arg
  - *Mutation Type:* Missense 
  - *dbSNP ID:* rs786205158
- p.Lys2696Glu
  - *Mutation Type:* Missense 
  - *dbSNP ID:* rs785039564
- p.Arg3892Ter 
  - *Mutation Type:* Nonsense
  - *dbSNP ID:* rs786205159

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
None reported in dbSNP.

## Related disease
- Primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD)

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for PCD. The treatment aims to manage symptoms such as infections, pain, and inflammation. However, early diagnosis and treatment can improve the prognosis and quality of life. Patients may require regular cleaning of their airways, antibiotics to treat infections, and sometimes need therapy to assist fertility.

## Drug Response
None reported.

## Related Papers
- **Subject:** DNAH5 mutation
- **Author:** Shoemark A, Frost E & Hirst RA
- **DOI:** 10.1513/AnnalsATS.201901-014SR

- #DNAH5
- #Dynein
- #PrimaryCiliaryDyskinesia
- #MissenseMutation
- #NonsenseMutation
- #Treatment
- #Prognosis
- #RespiratoryInfections**
**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**