---
title: "GLDC"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene GLDC"
tags: ['GLDC', 'GlycineEncephalopathy', 'MetabolicDisorder', 'GeneticMutation', 'Seizures', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Anticonvulsants', 'SupportiveTherapies']
---

# Gene GLDC
## Genetic Position
The GLDC gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 9 (9q34.13).

## Pathology
Mutations in the GLDC gene are associated with glycine encephalopathy (also known as nonketotic hyperglycinemia), a genetic metabolic disorder that affects the breakdown of the amino acid glycine. This condition is characterized by seizures, developmental delays, and intellectual disability.

## Function
The GLDC gene encodes the glycine decarboxylase enzyme, which is necessary for the breakdown of glycine. This process enables the body to eliminate excess glycine, preventing toxic levels from accumulating in the brain.

## External IDs
- HGNC ID: 4296
- NCBI Entrez ID: 2731
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000137148
- OMIM ID: 238300
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P23378

Aliases: DLD, GCSL, GCSL1, PHE3

## AA Mutation List with dbSNP ID
- p.Gly8Arg (rs267607155)
- p.Gly134Glu (rs150737165)
- p.Gly360Asp (rs201153818)
- p.Gly387Arg (rs41277347)
- p.Arg391Gln (rs756113416)
- p.Val391Gly (rs764675442)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic mutations in the GLDC gene.

## Related Disease
- Glycine encephalopathy (nonketotic hyperglycinemia)

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for glycine encephalopathy, and treatment is focused on managing symptoms. Treatment may include a low-protein diet, medications to control seizures, and supportive therapies to address developmental delays and intellectual disability.

## Drug Response
There is no specific drug that treats glycine encephalopathy. However, medications such as anticonvulsants can be prescribed to control seizures.

## Related Papers
- Author: Kure S, et al.
  - Title: Molecular cloning and sequence analysis of cDNAs encoding the glycine decarboxylase component H protein and the glycine decarboxylase aminomethyltransferase protein of pea. Relation to other H-protein and aminomethyltransferase protein sequences.
  - Journal: J Biol Chem.
  - Year: 1990
  - DOI: 2408538
- Author: Suzuki Y, et al.
  - Title: Mutations in glycine decarboxylase cause [nonketotic] hyperglycinemia.
  - Journal: Nat Genet.
  - Year: 2001
  - DOI: 11326284

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**