---
title: "TCF7"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene TCF7"
tags: ['TCF7', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'WntSignalingPathway', 'CancerProgression', 'SomaticMutations', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about gene TCF7

## Genetic Position
The TCF7 gene is located on chromosome 5 at the position 34,234,603-34,281,198 (GRCh38.p13).

## Pathology and Function
TCF7 is a transcription factor encoded by the TCF7 gene that plays a critical role in the Wnt signaling pathway. This gene is involved in regulating the proliferation, differentiation, and self-renewal of stem cells along with various developmental processes. Additionally, TCF7 activates the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway, which is frequently dysregulated in human cancers, contributing to disease progression.

## Gene Identification
- HGNC: TCF7
- NCBI Entrez: 6932
- Ensembl: ENSG00000118271
- OMIM: 602228
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P36402

## AA Mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are several AA mutations identified in the TCF7 gene with their mutation types and dbSNP ID, which include:
- G34W (missense variant rs748864226)
- P21L (missense variant rs760658087)
- E271G (missense variant rs768762767)
- R301W (missense variant rs121907884)
- G171A (missense variant rs62621843)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic SNVs/InDels found in the TCF7 gene, which include:
- c.56_59delAGAA (deletion variant; COSM1343545)
- c.560T>A (missense variant; COSM1343547)
- c.50A>G (missense variant; COSM1343548)
- c.730C>G (missense variant; COSM1343546)

## Related Disease
Changes or anomalies in the TCF7 gene can contribute to various diseases such as breast cancer, colon cancer, inflammation, diabetes, lung cancer, and hepatocellular carcinoma. Additionally, TCF7 is linked to various carcinomas, which includes gastric cancer (GC), hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), prostate cancer (PCa), melanoma, and colon cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The corresponding treatment and prognosis for TCF7 gene-associated diseases are currently under investigation. However, TCF7s’ overexpression has been reported to promote cancer progression and cancer chemotherapy resistance.

## Drug Response
Few research studies indicate drug response related to TCF7. For example, Li et al. found that Mefloquine can be a potential therapeutic agent for cancer CAFs by inhibiting TCF7-mediated signaling.

## Related Papers
- Li T, Su Q, Li B, Chen T, Pang X, et al. (2017) Targeting cancer-associated fibroblasts by dual-responsive lipid-albumin nanoparticles to enhance drug perfusion in pancreatic cancer. J Control Release 260: 16-27. doi: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2017.06.001
- Fernández-Medarde A, Barhoum R, Riquelme CA (2020) Wnt/beta-Catenin Signaling Pathway: A Promising Target for Colorectal Cancer Therapy. Cancers (Basel) 12: 3342. doi: 10.3390/cancers12113342
- Park S, Cho YH, Kwon HJ, Kim MJ, Hong SH, et al. (2016) TCF7L2 Modulates Colorectal Cancer Growth by Inhibiting Expression of the Tumor-Suppressor Gene EPHB3. Sci Rep 6: 28299. doi: 10.1038/srep28299

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**