---
title: "NIPBL"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: NIPBL "
tags: ['NIPBL', 'CorneliaDeLangeSyndrome', 'GeneExpression', 'CohesinComplex', 'Mutation', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'Prognosis', 'SMC1L1']
---

# Gene: NIPBL 

## Genetic Position
- NIPBL gene is located on the long arm (q) of chromosome 5.
- The genomic location of NIPBL is 5p13.2.

## Pathology
- NIPBL gene is associated with Cornelia de Lange syndrome (CdLS).
- Mutations in NIPBL have been identified as the cause of CdLS type 1.
- CdLS is a rare genetic disorder that affects many parts of the body.

## Function
- NIPBL gene encodes a protein called Nipped-B-like protein, which is involved in the regulation of gene expression.
- It plays a crucial role in regulating the development and growth of cells.
- NIPBL protein forms a complex with other proteins to form the Cohesin complex, which is important for chromosome structure and function during cell division.

## External IDs and aliases
- HGNC ID: HGNC:17133
- NCBI Entrez: 25836
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000113522
- OMIM ID: 608667
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8WTS6

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg827Cys (rs864309707)
- p.Arg827His (rs397509280)
- p.Lys1377Gln (rs771968705)
- p.Arg1249Gly (rs864309705)
- p.Arg1234Trp (rs864309704)
- Frameshift mutation: c.5746dupA (rs587777907)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs41313049
- rs150631725

## Related Disease
- Cornelia de Lange syndrome

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no cure for CdLS and treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
- The prognosis depends on the severity of the condition and associated complications.

## Drug response
- No specific drug has been developed for CdLS yet. 

## References
- Deardorff, M. A., Bando, M., Nakato, R., Watrin, E., Itoh, T., Minamino, M., … Shirahige, K. (2012). HDAC8 mutations in Cornelia de Lange syndrome affect the cohesin acetylation cycle. Nature, 489(7415), 313–317. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature11316)
- Musio, A., Selicorni, A., Focarelli, M. L., Gervasini, C., Milani, D., Russo, S., … Larizza, L. (2006). X-linked Cornelia de Lange syndrome owing to SMC1L1 mutations. Nature Genetics, 38(5), 528–530. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/ng1776)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**