---
title: "PIGA"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: PIGA"
tags: ['PIGA', 'Genetics', 'PNH', 'GPI', 'Mutation', 'Eculizumab', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: PIGA
The following is some information about the PIGA gene in terms of its genetic position, pathology, and function.


## Genetic Position:
- Chromosome: X
- Location: Xp22.2
- Strand: Minus


## Pathology:
- PIGA gene mutations are associated with various disorders, notably:
     - Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH): a rare blood disorder that results in the destruction of red blood cells (RBCs) and blood clots.
     
## Function: 
- PIGA encodes for protein Phosphatidylinositol Glycan Anchor Biosynthesis Class A (PIGA).
- PIGA plays a crucial role in the synthesis of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI), which anchors multiple proteins on the cell surface. A mutation in PIGA affects the attachment of GPI to proteins thus, affecting the protein's proper localization and leading to various disorders.

## External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC ID: 8962
- NCBI Entrez ID: 5277
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000169313
- OMIM ID: 311770
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P37287
- Aliases: MECOM, EVI1 


## AA Mutation List with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID:
- PIGA protein has a total of 417 amino acid residues.
- Some variants in the PIGA gene and their corresponding mutation type are listed below with dbSNP ID:
   - p.Thr110Met: Missense variant rs767083978
   - p.Arg91*: Nonsense variant rs766859375
   - p.Cys92Tyr: Missense variant rs398123046
   - p.Arg76Gln: Missense variant rs766791988


## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- Some somatic variants with their corresponding dbSNP ID reported in PIGA gene are 
  - c.1232T>G: rs115401545
  - c.1098C>G: rs1553192738 
  - c.383T>A: rs762065387


## Related Disease:
- PNH, a rare blood disease, due to the mutation in the PIGA gene.


## Treatment and Prognosis:
- The current therapy for PNH includes the use of eculizumab, a drug that targets the complement system to prevent RBC destruction. 
- The prognosis of PNH depends on the extent of hemolysis and thrombosis occurring in patients. Patients with a severe form of PNH may require a bone marrow transplant. 


## Drug Response:
- Eculizumab is an FDA-approved drug that was shown to be effective in treating PNH.


## References:
- Hill A, Richards SJ, Hillmen P. Recent developments in the understanding and management of paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria. Br J Haematol. 2007;137(3):181-192. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2141.2007.06580.x) <br>
- van der Crabben SN, van de Laar L, Swertz MA, et al. Sequencing Dutch patients with clinically suspected hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia reveals novel mutations and expands the mutational spectrum. Hum Genet. 2016;135(3):329-339. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00439-015-1628-8.)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**