---
title: "CYP2D6"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about gene CYP2D6"
tags: ['CYP2D6', 'DrugMetabolism', 'GeneticVariations', 'AdverseDrugReactions', 'PersonalizedDosing', 'DrugResponse', 'Schizophrenia', 'BreastCancer']
---

## Information about gene CYP2D6

### Genetic Position
The CYP2D6 gene is located on chromosome 22q13.1.

### Pathology
CYP2D6 is known to be associated with poor drug metabolism, resulting in the potential for adverse drug reactions or inadequate treatment efficacy. Approximately 7% of the population are poor metabolizers due to genetic variations in the gene.


### Function for gene
CYP2D6 is a member of the cytochrome P450 family of enzymes, which play a key role in metabolizing xenobiotics and endogenous compounds, including many drugs. The enzyme converts drugs with a wide range of structures into metabolites that can be more easily eliminated from the body.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 2625
- NCBI Entrez: 1565
- Ensembl: ENSG00000100197
- OMIM: 124030
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P10635

Aliases:
- CPD6
- CYP2D
- cytochrome P450 2D
- debrisoquine 4-hydroxylase
- P450 DB1

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
Some of the common genetic variations/mutations in CYP2D6 are:

|AA Position|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|9|Missense|rs1135840|
|100|Missense|rs1065852|
|102|Missense|rs28371706|
|103|Missense|rs72549339|
|105|Missense|rs72549340|
|193|Missense|rs3892097|

### Somatic SNVs/InDeLs with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic variants or Indels reported for CYP2D6.

### Related Diseases
Some of the diseases associated with CYP2D6 variations/mutations are:
- Breast cancer
- Parkinson's disease
- Schizophrenia

### Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment for individuals with variations/mutations in CYP2D6 may involve personalized dosing and/or alternative drug options. Poor metabolizers may require lower doses of certain drugs, and drugs that are metabolized by CYP2D6 may be avoided altogether.
The prognosis for individuals with CYP2D6 variations/mutations depends on the specific variation/mutation and its effect on drug metabolism.

### Drug Response
Drug response may vary for individuals with variations/mutations in CYP2D6. Some drugs may be metabolized too rapidly, resulting in low efficacy, while others may be metabolized too slowly, resulting in toxicity.

### Related Papers
- Author: Shiyi Ou
  - Title: CYP2D6 polymorphisms and response to risperidone and aripiprazole in patients with schizophrenia
  - DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.14786
- Author: Lie-Fen Shyur
  - Title: Concurrent chemoradiotherapy with cisplatin versus cetuximab for oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma treatment stratified by CYP2D6 genotype
  - DOI: 10.1002/jcb.29565

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**