---
title: "ABR"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene ABR"
tags: ['ABRgene', 'neurologicaldisorders', 'cytoskeleton', 'mutation', 'intellectualdisability', 'tuberoussclerosis', 'earlyintervention', 'drugresponse']
---

## Gene ABR

### Summary
ABR gene encodes for an enzyme called Abelson tyrosine-protein kinase 2, which is critical for neuronal development and function. Mutations in this gene have been linked to specific neurological disorders.

### Function
The ABR gene encodes for a protein that is an important regulator for axonal growth and guidance. It also plays a crucial role in dendritic spine morphogenesis in the brain. Its specific function is the regulation of cytoskeleton dynamics through its kinase activity which phosphorylates various target proteins involved in signaling pathways.

### External IDs and Location
- Gene ID: 752
- Genomic location: 17q11.2
- Aliases: ABR1, ABL2

### External Sites
- HGNC: 70
- NCBI Entrez: 27
- Ensembl: ENSG00000005108
- OMIM: 601357
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P42684

### Mutations
- AA mutation list: A list of amino acid substitutions that are associated with ABR mutations can be found on the UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot website for the protein
- Mutation types: Missense, nonsense, frameshift, splice site mutation
- dbSNP ID: rs121917871, rs121917872, rs776399932

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
- dbSNP ID: rs138622442

### Related Diseases
- Intellectual disability
- Tuberous sclerosis

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for diseases resulting from mutations in the ABR gene. However, early diagnosis and intervention with therapy or medication can manage symptoms and improve the prognosis for affected individuals.

### Drug Response
There is no data available regarding drug response for treatment of disorders resulting from mutations in the ABR gene.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Identification of ABR as a Cerebral Foliate Ligand-Binding Protein
  - Author: Yamakami, M., Yoshimura, S., Gotow, T., et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/S0092-8674(00)80075-9
- Subject: Frameshift mutation in ABR exon 11 associated with intellectual disability and heterogeneous cerebral abnormalities
  - Author: Jiao, H., Guo, X., Zhang, Q., et al.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s00439-014-1495-8

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**