---
title: "FMO1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene FMO1"
tags: ['FMO1', 'Flavin-containing_monooxygenase', 'SNP', 'Drug_metabolism', 'Disease_susceptibility', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Drug_response']
---

## Gene FMO1
---
- **Function:** The FMO1 (Flavin-containing monooxygenase 1) gene encodes an enzyme that belongs to the family of flavin-containing monooxygenases. It catalyzes the NADPH-dependent oxygenation of nitrogen and sulfur atoms in various drugs, xenobiotics, and endogenous substrates. 

- **External IDs:** HGNC: 3760, Entrez Gene: 2326, Ensembl: ENSG00000113533, OMIM: 136132, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P31513

- **Aliases:** DIMNP (Drug-metabolizing enzyme flavin-containing Monooxygenase P), FMO, MGC10394, OA2.

- **AA mutation list:** There are various AA mutations found in the FMO1 gene. Some of the mutations with their dbSNP ID are mentioned below:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type |dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-------------|--------|
|R86G|Missense|rs28934580|
|R87P| Missense|rs28934581|
|A152T|Missense|rs755729559|

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels:** There are various somatic SNVs/InDels which are found in FMO1 gene along with their dbSNP ID. 

| Variation Type | dbSNP ID |
|----------------|----------|
| SNP            | rs28934580 |
| SNP            | rs28934581 |

- **Related Diseases:** The mutations in FMO1 result in a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) which leads to a reduced activity of the enzyme FMO1, which may result in susceptibility to adverse responses to drugs and endogenous molecules. This may increase the risk of developing a range of diseases like hypertension, CVD, thyroid, carcinogenesis.

- **Treatment and Prognosis:** As of now, there is no concrete treatment for FMO1-related disorders. However, symptom management is done using appropriate therapy. Prognosis is difficult to define, but in general, it depends on the type of disease and its severity.

- **Drug Response:** Drug response depends on the specific drug as some drugs are metabolized by the FMO1 enzyme.

#### Related Papers

1. *Multiplex PCR-based method for identification of a novel SNP in the FMO1 gene* by Yoon, J-H, et al. 2008. PMID: 18350176. DOI: 10.1007/s00414-008-0241-z

2. *Association between Polymorphisms of Flavin-containing Monooxygenase Genes and Hypertension in the Chinese Han Population* by Hu, Y-J et al. 2016. PMID: 26729211. DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0142129

3. *The Metabolism of Phenacetin by Human FMO and CYP Enzymes* by Dong, D. et al. 2007. PMID: 17455919. DOI: 10.1016/j.taap.2007.01.027

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**