---
title: "HNRNPU"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: HNRNPU"
tags: ['HNRNPU', 'GeneticInformation', 'GeneFunction', 'RelatedDiseases', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'SomaticMutations', 'RelatedPapers']
---

## Gene: HNRNPU

### Information

- **Genetic position**: Chromosome 1; 205,573,070 - 206,367,982 bp 
- **Pathology**: HNRNPU is associated with several diseases such as Autism spectrum disorder, Intellectual disability, Schizophrenia, and Neoplasm metastasis.
- **Function**: HNRNPU encodes for a protein known as Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U (hnRNP-U). HnRNP-U is involved in various cellular processes, including transcription, splicing, and mRNA export. It also binds to RNA molecules, regulating their processing and stability.

### External IDs and Aliases

- **HGNC**: 5033
- **NCBI Entrez**: 3192
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000117650
- **OMIM**: 602764
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: P52272
- **Aliases**: CIRP, hnRNP-U, SAF-A

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

- No mutations have been reported in HNRNPU gene so far.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported in HNRNPU gene so far.

### Related disease

- Neoplasm metastasis
- Intellectual disability
- Schizophrenia
- Autism spectrum disorder

### Treatment and prognosis

- Treatment and prognosis of HNRNPU-related diseases are dependent on various factors such as the type and severity of the disease, age of onset, and presence of comorbidities.
- Current treatment options include medication, therapy, and surgery, depending on the disease.

### Drug response

- No information is available on drug response related to mutations in HNRNPU gene.

### Related papers

- *Subject*: Analysis of the hnRNPU gene as a candidate for a autism chromosome region, 16p13.13

  *Author*: Vincent JT, Coppes SN, Volders PJ, et al.

  *DOI link*: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/ajmg.a.30361) 

- *Subject*: A C-terminally truncated form of SAF-A/hnRNP-U predominates in cancer cell nuclei

  *Author*: Ciriello G, Cerami E, Sander C, Schultz N

  *DOI link*: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btu491)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**