---
title: "WWOX"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene WWOX"
tags: ['WWOX', 'TumorSuppressor', 'Cancer', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'Research']
---

# Information about Gene WWOX

## Genetic Position
The WWOX gene is located on Chromosome 16 at position q23.3.

## Pathology
The WWOX gene is associated with several pathologies, including cancer development, metabolic disorders, and neurological disorders.

## Function
The WWOX gene encodes a protein, WW domain-containing oxidoreductase, which acts as a tumor suppressor and regulates various cellular processes, including apoptosis, transcription, and DNA repair.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 12679
- NCBI Entrez: 51741
- Ensembl: ENSG00000104047
- OMIM: 605131
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NZC7 

Aliases: FOR, FRA16D, SCAR12, WOX1

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Trp239Cys (rs61755268)
- p.Thr372Met (rs786205076)
- p.Lys265Asn (rs1057520454)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.403delC (rs373121017)
- c.304G>A (rs797234560)
- c.277C>T (rs767523849)

## Related diseases
- Breast cancer
- Prostate cancer
- Osteosarcoma
- Neurological disorders like epilepsy, autism, and intellectual disability.

## Treatment and prognosis
The treatment and prognosis for individuals with WWOX-associated disorders depend on the specific disease. In some cases, surgery or radiation therapy may be necessary for cancer treatment. For neurological disorders, treatment may involve symptom management and supportive therapies.

## Drug response
There is limited information on drug responses related to WWOX gene mutations. However, some studies have suggested that certain gene mutations may affect the response to chemotherapy and radiation therapy.

## Related papers
- Guarnieri V, Tamma R, Mangia A, et al. The wwox tumor suppressor: an update on functions and therapeutic approaches. Cancers (Basel). 2020;12(11):3251. doi:10.3390/cancers12113251
- Abu-Remaileh M, Aqeilan RI. Tumor suppressor WWOX regulates glucose metabolism via HIF1α modulation [published online ahead of print, 2021 Mar 12]. Semin Cancer Biol. 2021;S1044-579X(21)00063-3. doi:10.1016/j.semcancer.2021.03.002

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**