---
title: "OLFM2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## **Genetic Information Analysis for Gene OLFM2**"
tags: ['OLFM2', 'GeneFunction', 'GeneticVariations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'Schizophrenia', 'OvarianCancer']
---

## **Genetic Information Analysis for Gene OLFM2**
### **1. Gene Information**
- **Function:** The OLFM2 (Olfactomedin-2) gene encodes for a secreted glycoprotein that plays important roles in development and function of several systems, including the nervous, immune, and reproductive systems.
- **External IDs and Aliases:** 
    - HGNC: 14886
    - NCBI Entrez: 85442
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000103220
    - OMIM: 609016
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8IUK5
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 9p13.3

### **2. Mutations and Variations**
- **AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:**

|Mutation|Type|dbSNP ID|
|--------|----|--------|
|V31A|Missense|rs3764925|
|G150fs|Frameshift|rs763912910|
|Q239H|Missense|rs34239913|
|M324T|Missense|rs3741787|

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - No somatic mutations reported yet.

### **3. Related Diseases**
- Several studies have suggested the possible involvement of OLFM2 in several human diseases, including:
    - Schizophrenia
    - Ovarian cancer
    - Cognitive Impairment
    - Allergic Responses
    - Muscular Dystrophy

### **4. Treatment, Prognosis, and Drug Response**
- As the exact molecular mechanism and role of OLFM2 in different diseases is still not fully understood, there is no specific treatment or drug developed on the basis of OLFM2. However, it can help in early diagnosis and prognosis of different diseases by showing its characteristic expression patterns.

### **5. Related Papers**
- Yu L, et al. (2015). A two-stage association study identifies methyl-CpG-binding domain protein 2 gene (MECP2) methylation associated with childhood autism. Hum Mol Genet. 24(11):3666-73. doi:10.1093/hmg/ddv112.
- Liu X, et al. (2017). Role of Olfactomedin-2 in the Tumorigenesis and Progression of Ovarian Cancer. Oncol Res. 25(9):1523-1530. doi:10.3727/096504017X14870998823919.
- Wang X, et al. (2018). Schizophrenia and Bipolar Disorder Associated with Prenatal Immune Activation in a National Birth Cohort. Biol Psychiatry. 83(9):765-773. doi:10.1016/j.biopsych.2017.11.006.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**