---
title: "CTSA"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: CTSA"
tags: ['CTSA', 'CathepsinA', 'Galactosialidosis', 'LysosomalEnzyme', 'GeneticVariants', 'Treatment', 'RelatedDiseases', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene: CTSA

## Information

**Genetic Position**: Chromosome 20:chr20q13.1

**Function**: CTSA encodes for Cathepsin A which is a lysosomal enzyme that functions in conjunction with beta-galactosidase and neuraminidase in the breakdown of gangliosides and glycoproteins.

**Pathology**: Mutations in CTSA have been linked to galactosialidosis, a lysosomal storage disorder characterized by the impaired degradation of keratan sulfate, sialylated Form of oligosaccharides and other glycoconjugates.

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC ID: HGNC:2518
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 5476
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000101347
- OMIM ID: 256540
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P10619

**Aliases**: GNPTAB, Protective protein, Lman1-prov protein hybrid precursor

## Variation Information

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are over 1000 variants reported for CTSA in the dbSNP database. Here are a few examples:

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---|---|---|
|p.Gly169Ser|Missense|rs74315372|
|p.Arg58Gln|Missense|rs121918237|
|p.Ala421Ser|Missense|rs74315371|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are currently no reported somatic variants in CTSA.

## Related Diseases

- Galactosialidosis

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no cure for galactosialidosis, but treatment is focused on relieving symptoms and improving the quality of life of affected individuals.

## Drug Response

There has been no significant study on drug response for CTSA-related diseases.

## Related Papers

- **Subject:** Cathepsin A deficiency: A family report with features of galactosialidosis. **Author:** R. Kuno-Sakai. **DOI:** [10.1002/ajmg.1320400402](https://doi.org/10.1002/ajmg.1320400402))
- **Subject:** Ongoing Myoclonic Seizures in a Japanese Patient with Late Infantile Galactosialidosis. **Author:** Hiroyuki Yamamoto. **DOI:** [10.1016/s0387-7604(16)30327-4](https://doi.org/10.1016/s0387-7604(16)30327-4))
- **Subject:** Cathepsin A: Structure, Function and Regulation. **Author:** Jiaming Wang. **DOI:** [10.3390/ijms150910199](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms150910199))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**