---
title: "OTC"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: OTC"
tags: ['OTC', 'OrnithineTranscarbamylase', 'MetabolicDisorder', 'AminoAcidMetabolism', 'XLinked', 'AmmoniaAccumulation', 'SodiumPhenylbutyrate', 'LiverTransplantation']
---

# Gene: OTC
## Genetic Position
The OTC gene is located on the Xq13.1 region of the X chromosome. It spans about 11.5 kb of genomic DNA.

## Pathology
Mutations in the OTC gene result in a rare metabolic disorder called Ornithine Transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency. This disorder is caused by a deficiency of the OTC enzyme, which leads to the accumulation of ammonia in the blood. OTC deficiency is inherited in an X-linked pattern, which means that the condition affects males more severely than females.

## Function
The OTC gene encodes for the OTC enzyme, which is involved in the metabolism of the amino acid ornithine. The enzyme catalyzes the reaction between ornithine and carbamoyl phosphate to form citrulline in the urea cycle. This cycle is responsible for removing excess nitrogen from the body.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 8490
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 5009
- Ensembl: ENSG00000101773
- OMIM: 311250
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P00480
- Gene Alias: OTCASE, OCT, OCTC, OTCX

## AA Mutation list and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Glu232Lys - Missense Variant - rs104894301
- p.Thr240Met - Missense Variant - rs267606681

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic mutations for OTC gene.

## Related Disease
OTC deficiency is a rare metabolic disorder caused by a mutation in the OTC gene. It affects approximately 1 in 14,000 individuals worldwide. Symptoms of OTC deficiency include lethargy, vomiting, cerebral edema, seizures, coma and can even lead to death. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
OTC deficiency is a life-long condition. Treatment involves reducing the level of nitrogen in the body by limiting dietary protein intake, ammonia scavengers and maintaining hydration. In some cases, liver transplantation may be an option. However, this condition can be life-threatening, and prompt treatment is crucial.

## Drug Response
Sodium phenylbutyrate and sodium benzoate are drugs that can be used to treat the symptoms of OTC deficiency. This drug combination has shown to reduce blood ammonia levels significantly in individuals with the disorder.

## Related Papers
- Camiña-Tato, M., Sánchez-Alcudia, R., Alcántara-Ortigoza, M. A., Pérez, B., Ugarte, M., & Desviat, L. R. (2014). New aspects of amino acids’ metabolism in primary hyperammonemias: the role of glutamine synthetase and glutamate dehydrogenase in diagnosis and pathogenesis. Expert Review of Molecular Diagnostics, 14(6), 785–796. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1586/14737159.2014.931202)
- Batshaw, M. L. (2014). Treatment of urea cycle disorders. Current Opinion in Pediatrics, 26(6), 615–621. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1097/MOP.0000000000000141)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**