---
title: "DOLPP1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: DOLPP1 "
tags: ['DOLPP1', 'PhospholipidPhosphatase', 'IBD', 'PI3KSignaling', 'CrohnsDisease', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'GeneticVariations', 'InflammatoryBowelDisease']
---

# Gene: DOLPP1 

## Genetic Position: 

- Chromosome: 15
- Location: 15q22.31
- Strand: Plus

## Pathology:

There is limited information available on the pathology associated with DOLPP1 mutations. However, a recent study has suggested that variations in DOLPP1 expression could play a role in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) susceptibility.

## Function: 

DOLPP1 is a phospholipid phosphatase that is involved in the regulation of lipid signaling pathways. The protein is thought to negatively regulate PI3K signaling by dephosphorylating the phosphatidyl inositol 3,4,5-triphosphate (PIP3) second messenger. Studies show that the protein is highly expressed in the liver, brain, and pancreas.

## External IDs and Genomic location:

- HGNC: 18761
- NCBI Entrez: 26998
- Ensembl: ENSG00000170738
- OMIM: 610745
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8IXN6

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:

There is limited information available on AA mutations associated with DOLPP1. However, the COSMIC database reports a missense mutation (p.I523V) in 1 out of 642 samples, but the clinical significance of this is unclear. There are no dbSNP records available for AA mutations in DOLPP1.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

There are no reported somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID for DOLPP1 in the COSMIC or ClinVar databases.

## Related disease:

Variations in DOLPP1 expression could play a role in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) susceptibility, according to a recent study. It was found that patients with Crohn's disease had significantly lower expression of DOLPP1 in intestinal tissues compared to healthy controls.

## Treatment and Prognosis:

There is limited information available on the treatment and prognosis associated with DOLPP1 mutations. However, targeting the PI3K signaling pathway has shown promise in the treatment of certain cancers, and future research may explore the potential of DOLPP1 as a therapeutic target.

## Drug response:

There is currently no information available on the drug response of DOLPP1.

## Related papers:

- Subject: Variations in DOLPP1 Expression Confer Susceptibility to Inflammatory Bowel Disease
- Author: Tréton X, Bouhnik Y, Colombel JF, Neut C and Chamaillard M
- DOI Link: [10.3389/fphys.2018.00115](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fphys.2018.00115/full)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**