---
title: "SLC25A12"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SLC25A12"
tags: ['SLC25A12', 'MitochondrialCitrullineTransporter', 'UreaCycle', 'IntellectualDisability', 'LiverFibrosis', 'AmishMicrocephaly', 'SymptomManagement', 'PeroxisomeProliferatorActivatedReceptor']
---

# Information about Gene SLC25A12

## Genetic Position

The SLC25A12 gene is located on the long (q) arm of chromosome 2 at position 31.1.

## Pathology

Variations in the SLC25A12 gene have been associated with autosomal recessive non-syndromic intellectual disability and Amish microcephaly. Moreover, functional studies have linked the protein encoded by the gene with citrulline transportation from the mitochondria to the cytoplasm. Variations in this gene have also been associated with susceptibility to the development of liver fibrosis.

## Function

SLC25A12 gene encodes for the mitochondrial citrulline transporter, which plays a pivotal role in the urea cycle. Urea cycle is a vital process for cellular metabolism aimed at detoxifying ammonia via the urea production so that it can be excreted out the human body. Specifically, the protein SLC25A12 transports citrulline to the cytoplasm, which is then converted into arginine to complete the urea cycle.

## External IDs and Aliases

- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 10960
    - NCBI Entrez: 83876
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000171105
    - OMIM: 603667
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9H2Z2

- Aliases:
    - Aralar2
    - CMC1
    - Citrin

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

Several variations/mutations have been reported in the SLC25A12 gene, including several missense variations that lead to amino acid changes within the protein sequence. Specifically, the non-synonymous variances in SLC25A12 include G191A (rs17850869C > T), A1775G (rs137852771G > A), and T1271C          (rs80170399G > A).

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There have been no reports of somatic SNVs/InDels in the SLC25A12 gene so far.

## Related Diseases

Variations in the SLC25A12 gene have been linked with several diseases, including:

- Autosomal recessive non-syndromic intellectual disability
- Amish microcephaly
- Development of liver fibrosis

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no definitive cure for the various disorders associated with the SLC25A12 gene. However, treatment usually focuses on symptom management and supportive care, such as physiotherapy, antiepileptic medications, and special education assistance.

## Drug Response

Currently, there are no known drugs that specifically target the SLC25A12 gene.

## Related Papers and Authors

- Kimura, T., et al. (2010). "Human Slc25a12 gene expression is regulated by peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha and gamma, coactivator 1 alpha and hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 alpha." Biological & Pharmaceutical Bulletin 33(4): 574-577. DOI: 10.1248/bpb.33.574.

- Meijer, A. J., et al. (2007). "Citrate and the liver: metabolism and implications for pathobiology." Journal of Hepatology 47(4): 717-726. DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2007.07.011.

- Kobayashi, K., et al. (1999). "The gene mutated in adult-onset type II citrullinemia encodes a putative mitochondrial carrier protein." Nature Genetics 22(2): 159-163. DOI: 10.1038/9664.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**