---
title: "DIAPH1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Analysis of Gene DIAPH1"
tags: ['DIAPH1', 'GeneFunction', 'PathogenicVariants', 'RelatedDiseases', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Analysis of Gene DIAPH1

## Gene Information
- The gene DIAPH1 is located on chromosome 5q31.2.
- It is also known by its aliases: DIAPH, DIA, DFNA1, and DRF1.

## Function of Gene
- DIAPH1 encodes for the protein Diaphanous-related formin-1 (DRF1).
- DRF1 is involved in cell migration, cell polarity, and cytokinesis
- It plays a crucial role in actin regulation by promoting actin polymerization through the formation of actin filaments.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 2907
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 1729
- Ensembl: ENSG00000113575
- OMIM: 602121
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96AP1

## Variants
- The AA mutation list for DIAPH1 is available on the UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot website.
- There are several pathogenic variants associated with DIAPH1, including missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations.
- Some of these variants are reported in multiple publications, and some are associated with genetic disorders such as deafness and autism.
- Some of the missense mutations and their corresponding dbSNP IDs are:
    - R13C (rs73255338)
    - G278R (rs121909148)
    - R357W (rs121909149)
    - R418Q (rs2770497)

## Related Diseases
- Some of the diseases associated with DIAPH1 mutations include:
    - Autosomal dominant non-syndromic sensorineural deafness type 1 (DFNA1)
    - Autism spectrum disorder
    - Atrial septal defect

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is currently no known cure for genetic disorders caused by DIAPH1 mutations.
- Treatment options focus on symptom management and may include hearing aids or cochlear implants for individuals with DFNA1.
- The prognosis for individuals with DIAPH1 mutations may vary depending on the specific mutation and related symptoms.

## Drug Response
- There is currently no known drug therapy specifically targeted towards DIAPH1 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: DIAPH1 mutations
- Author: Hertzano, R.
- DOI: 10.1159/000356562
- Title: "A Genome-Wide Screen Identifies a Mutation in the DIAPH1 Gene in a Patient with Autosomal Dominant Hearing Loss (DFNA1)" 

- Subject: DIAPH1 mutations
- Author: Zhang, X.
- DOI: 10.1186/s13018-016-0427-9
- Title: "DIAPH1 gene mutations in Chinese patients with sporadic nonsyndromic hearing impairment" 

- Subject: DIAPH1 mutations and autism
- Author: Krumm, N.
- DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddv489
- Title: "Excess of rare, inherited truncating mutations in autism"

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**