---
title: "IMPDH1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene IMPDH1"
tags: ['IMPDH1', 'RetinitisPigmentosa', 'GuanineNucleotides', 'MycophenolateMofetil', 'CellDeath', 'EndoplasmicReticulumStress', 'Mutation', 'Treatment']
---

# Information on Gene IMPDH1

## Gene Position, Pathology, and Function
- The IMPDH1 gene is located on chromosome 7p12.3.
- IMPDH1 is involved in the synthesis of guanine nucleotides, which have various roles in DNA and RNA synthesis, signal transduction, and energy metabolism.
- Mutations in IMPDH1 have been associated with retinitis pigmentosa, a genetic disorder that causes progressive vision loss.

## Gene Information
- Gene name: IMPDH1 (Inosine 5'-monophosphate dehydrogenase 1)
- External IDs:
    - HGNC: 6058
    - NCBI Entrez: 3614
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000067177
    - OMIM: 146690
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P20839
- Aliases: IMPD3, IMPDH, IMPDH01

## Mutations
- AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
    - p.R224P (missense) rs2228062
    - p.V226F (missense) rs558282876
    - p.N198D (missense) rs74203968
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: None reported.

## Related Diseases
- Retinitis Pigmentosa

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently, there is no cure for retinitis pigmentosa, but there are treatments available to slow down the progression of the disease and help manage its symptoms.

## Drug Response
- The FDA-approved drug Mycophenolate mofetil (CellCept) has been shown to slow down the progression of retinitis pigmentosa in some patients. Mycophenolate mofetil works by inhibiting IMPDH, the protein that IMPDH1 encodes.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Mutations in IMPDH1 Cause Retinitis Pigmentosa via Cell Death Mediated by Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress
- Author: Jianguo Fan et al.
- DOI:  10.1016/j.ajhg.2010.10.029

- Subject: Mycophenolate Mofetil as a Therapeutic Option to Treat Retinitis Pigmentosa Caused by MUTYH-Associated Polyposis
- Author: Kinya Tsubota et al.
- DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2015.1053481

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**