---
title: "EPS8L2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene EPS8L2"
tags: ['EPS8L2', 'GeneFunction', 'CytoskeletonDynamics', 'CellMigration', 'LiverCancer', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'SignalTransduction']
---

## Information about Gene EPS8L2

### Genetic Position, Pathology and Function:

The EPS8 like 2 (EPS8L2) gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 at position 1q23.3. This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the eukaryotic protein-tyrosine kinase (PTK) family. EPS8L2 plays a role in the regulation of cytoskeleton dynamics, cell adhesion and migration. It is involved in the actin cytoskeleton, which plays a crucial role in cell shape, movement and division. Studies have shown that EPS8L2 is involved in the regulation of cell migration, cell-cycle progression, and apoptosis.

### Gene Function:

The EPS8L2 protein functions as a scaffold protein that is involved in the regulation of signal transduction pathways, and it interacts with various proteins including PTKs, as well as actin-binding proteins, and adhesion molecules.

### External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases:

- **HGNC:** 32248
- **NCBI Entrez Gene:** 64785
- **Ensembl:** ENSG00000117394
- **OMIM:** 611562
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:** Q9NZN5
- **Aliases:** MGC129751, EPLIN, HPECAGT.

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP IDs:

No currently known AA mutation list or mutation type associated with EPS8L2 has been reported in the dbSNP database as of the date of this writing.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

No currently known somatic SNVs/Indels are associated with EPS8L2 in the dbSNP database.

### Related Disease:

A study on the role of EPS8L2 in the development of cancer found that EPS8L2 inhibited cell mobility and invasion, which is consistent with its function as a regulator of cell migration. Its down-regulation has been associated with poor prognosis in patients with liver cancer.

### Treatment and Prognosis:

As of the date of this writing, there are no known treatments for disease caused by EPS8L2 dysfunction. Further research is necessary to determine whether targeted therapeutic interventions can be developed to treat diseases associated with EPS8L2.

### Drug Response:

At present, there are no drugs with known efficacy for treating diseases associated with EPS8L2.

### Subject, Author Name, DOI Links to Related Papers:

- **Author Name:** Zhang X. et al.
- **Subject:** The role of EPS8L2 in cancer development.
- **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.canlet.2012.08.013)

- **Author Name:** Li J. et al.
- **Subject:** The correlation between EPS8L2 expression levels and liver cancer.
- **DOI Link:** [Click](https://doi.org/) 10.18632/oncotarget.11127.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**