---
title: "MPL"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information Analysis: Gene MPL"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'GeneMPL', 'ThrombopoietinReceptor', 'MyeloproliferativeNeoplasms', 'EssentialThrombocythemia', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Research']
---

# Genetic Information Analysis: Gene MPL

## Gene Information

MPL (Myeloproliferative Leukemia Virus Oncogene) is a gene located on chromosome 1 and is involved in blood cell production.

### Function
The MPL gene provides instructions for making a protein called thrombopoietin receptor, which is found on the surface of certain blood cells called platelets and stem cells. This protein helps regulate the production of platelets, which are important for blood clotting, and assists in the development and differentiation of blood cells in the bone marrow.

### Genomic Location and External IDs

- Genomic Location: Chromosome 1
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 7232
    - NCBI Entrez: 4352
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000117400
    - OMIM: 159530
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P40238

### AA Mutation List and Mutations with dbSNP IDs

- MPL has several known mutations, including:
    - W515L: rs116447610
    - W515K: rs116447611
    - S204F: rs121913462
    - Y252H: rs121913463
    - Del: rs796065581

### Somatic SNVs/Indels with dbSNP IDs

- Some of the somatic mutations in MPL include:
    - c.1549T>G: rs116181637
    - c.1499_1507del: rs863224411
    - c.1468G>A: rs180247180

### Related Disease

- MPL gene mutations are associated with a rare condition called essential thrombocythemia (ET), which is a type of blood cancer that causes an overproduction of platelets. These mutations are also found in other myeloproliferative neoplasms, which are a group of blood cancers that affect the bone marrow.

### Treatment and Prognosis

- The treatment of essential thrombocythemia may involve the use of medication to reduce the number of platelets in the blood, bone marrow transplantation, or other therapies. 
- The prognosis of essential thrombocythemia varies widely depending on the age of onset, severity of symptoms, and presence of other medical conditions.

### Drug Response

- Studies have shown that certain medications, such as ruxolitinib, can be effective in treating myeloproliferative neoplasms with MPL mutations.

### Related Research

- Subject: Therapeutic Targeting of the Thrombopoietin Receptor in myeloproliferative neoplasms
- Author: Santos FPS, Verstovsek S
- DOI: 10.1038/s41408-018-0105-0
- Title: MPL mutation profiles in patients with essential thrombocythemia and primary myelofibrosis
- Author: Rumi E, Pietra D, Ferretti V, et al.
- DOI: 10.1182/blood-2011-02-339742

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**