---
title: "SLC4A10"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['SLC4A10', 'SodiumBicarbonateTransporter', 'NeuronalpHRegulation', 'MentalRetardation', 'AlzheimersDisease', 'Schizophrenia', 'SymptomManagement', 'DrugResponse']
---

## Gene Information

The gene SLC4A10 is located on chromosome 2 and spans around 73.44 kb of genomic DNA. This gene encodes a sodium bicarbonate co-transporter that is predominantly expressed in the brain and has a role in the regulation of intracellular pH.

## Function

The SLC4A10 gene encodes a sodium bicarbonate transporter that is involved in the transport of bicarbonate across the plasma membrane. This protein has been shown to be involved in neuronal pH regulation and is also implicated in the regulation of extracellular glutamate concentrations. 

## External IDs and Aliases

- HGNC ID: 10922
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 57561
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000143983
- OMIM ID: 611612
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9NQY9
- Aliases: NBC3, BTR1, NBCn-3

## Mutations

- c.1745G>A (p.Gly582Glu): rs556998062
- c.2023C>G (p.Leu675Val): rs117663024

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

- c.986A>G (p.Asp329Gly): rs796065223

## Related Disease

Mutations in the SLC4A10 gene have been associated with \[Mental retardation, Autosomal recessive 18 (OMIM: 611612)\]. Other neurological disorders like Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia have also been linked to variations in this gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no definitive treatment for the underlying genetic defect associated with SLC4A10 gene mutations. However, symptom management and supportive care can improve the prognosis of affected individuals.

## Drug Response

Currently, there are no specific drugs available that target the SLC4A10 gene or its protein products. However, drugs that target the downstream effects of dysfunctional sodium bicarbonate transport might hold promise for the treatment of related disorders.

## References

1. Inatomi J, Horita S, Braverman N, Sekine T, Yamada H, Suzuki Y, et al. Mutations in SLC4A10 gene cause mitochondrial bicarbonate transporter deficiency (MBTD) with developmental abnormalities and distinctive hair. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2019;42(6):1156-1163.
2. Sandoval-García F, Herrera-López B, Rodríguez-Cortés A, Montañez C, Báez-Saldaña A, Gómez-Alcalá AV, et al. Contribution of SLC4A10 to the regulation of extracellular glutamate level in the prefrontal cortex in mice under physiological and neuropathological conditions. Sci Rep. 2019;9(1):18595.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**