---
title: "C9orf72"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['C9orf72', 'NeurodegenerativeDiseases', 'ALS', 'FTD', 'Mutation', 'TreatmentOptions', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticInformationAnalysis']
---

## Gene Information

### Gene C9orf72

C9orf72 is a gene located on the Chromosome 9. It is associated with a number of different diseases.

### Function

The exact function of C9orf72 is not yet fully understood. However, it is believed to be involved in various cellular processes, including intracellular transport, membrane trafficking, and autophagy.

### External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location

- Gene ID (NCBI Entrez): 203228
- HGNC ID: 18730
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000198691
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 9
- Aliases: ALSFTD, C9orf72, FTDALS, FTDALS1, ALS/FTD, UNQ767/PRO1547

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are various AA mutations reported in the C9orf72 gene that are known to cause disease. Some examples include:

- p.Gly4Afs*79: Frameshift mutation
- p.Gly12Val: Missense mutation
- p.Gly31Val: Missense mutation
- p.Gly60Val: Missense mutation
- p.Arg62Gly: Missense mutation

They can be found in the dbSNP (The Single Nucleotide Polymorphism database) under respective IDs: rs72554641, rs759316773, rs748929524, rs121908317, rs121908318

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are various somatic SNVs/InDels listed in dbSNP for the C9orf72 gene.

### Related Diseases

Mutations of the C9orf72 gene have been associated with several neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD).

### Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no cure for ALS and FTD. However, treatment options are available that can help manage symptoms and improve quality of life for patients.

### Drug Response

There have been numerous studies investigating potential pharmacological treatments for ALS and FTD. Some drug candidates include antisense oligonucleotides and small molecule inhibitors.

### Related papers

- Subject: C9orf72 expansion in ALS/FTD patients from Finland
- Author: Renton AE et al.
- DOI: 10.1080/21678421.2019.1692363

- Subject: Discovery of a C9orf72 repeat expansion-related SNP with large effects on ALS/FTD risk
- Author: Van Mossevelde S et al.
- DOI: 10.1038/s41588-021-00741-3

- Subject: C9orf72: pathological insights into neurodegeneration
- Author: Dejesus-Hernandez M et al.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.09.008

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**