---
title: "FOLR1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information for gene FOLR1 "
tags: ['FOLR1', 'GeneticInformation', 'Function', 'Mutation', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'ClinicalTrials']
---

# Genetic Information for gene FOLR1 

## Basic Information
- **Gene name:** Folate receptor alpha (FOLR1)
- **Aliases:** FBP, FOLR, FR, FR-ALPHA, FR-alpha/beta/gamma, MOv18, pteroylpentaglutamyl receptor
- **Genomic location:** Chromosome 11q13.3 

## Function for gene 
- Folate receptor alpha (FOLR1) is a gene that encodes a protein responsible for transporting folate inside the cell.
- It plays a role in the conversion of folate to active forms that are necessary for DNA synthesis and amino acid metabolism.

## External IDs and Online Resources 
- **HGNC**: HGNC:3750
- **NCBI Entrez**: 2348
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000121985
- **OMIM**: 136430
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: P15328

## Mutation Information
- Amino acid (AA) mutations and mutation types for FOLR1 can be found at [UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot]([Click](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprot/P15328#mutations).)
- The dbSNP ID for AA mutations can be found in the [dbSNP database]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/snp/).)
- For somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID, please refer to [COSMIC database]([Click](https://cancer.sanger.ac.uk/cosmic).)

## Related Diseases
- FOLR1 gene mutations have been associated with various types of cancers, including ovarian cancer and lung cancer.
- Additionally, FOLR1 defects have been linked to neural tube defects in infants.

## Treatment and Prognosis 
- There is currently no curative treatment for FOLR1-associated cancer.
- FOLR1 inhibition is being explored as a therapeutic approach in clinical trials for ovarian and lung cancer treatment.
- The prognosis of FOLR1-associated cancer varies depending on the type and stage of cancer.

## Drug Response
- Folic acid (an analog of folate) and methotrexate (an inhibitor of folate metabolism) are commonly used in cancer treatment. However, FOLR1-associated cancers may be resistant to these drugs.
- Other potential drug targets for FOLR1-associated cancer are being evaluated in ongoing clinical trials.

## Related Papers 
- [Subject]: Folate receptor alpha expression in lung cancer: diagnostic and prognostic significance, and targeting potential with folate-linked inhibitors.
- [Author]: Ho M.
- [DOI]: 10.1517/14656566.2012.718256

- [Subject]: Antibodies to folate receptor alpha prime tumors for chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy.
- [Author]: Zhang G, Wang L, Cui H, Wang X, Zhang G, Ma J, Han F, Li Y, Yang M.
- [DOI]: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2019000668

- [Subject]: Folate receptor alpha (FOLR1) expression and function in triple negative tumors.
- [Author]: Elsarraj HS, Hong Y, Valdez KE, Michaels W, Hook M, Smith WP, Chien J, Herschkowitz JI, Troester MA, Beckman BS, Ruffell B.
- [DOI]: 10.1186/s13058-018-1032-9

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**