---
title: "POLH"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for POLH"
tags: ['POLH', 'DNApolymeraseeta', 'XPV', 'chemotherapy', 'somaticmutations', 'geneticdisease', 'UVradiation', 'cancerprevention']
---

# Gene Information for POLH

## Genetic Position:
* Gene name: POLH
* Chromosome: 6
* Location: 6p21.1
* Strand: plus

## Pathology and Function:
* Pathology: An autosomal recessive mutation of POLH can result in a rare disease called variant xeroderma pigmentosum (XPV), which is characterized by a higher susceptibility to ultraviolet radiation-induced skin cancer.
* Function: POLH encodes for the DNA polymerase eta protein, which is involved in bypassing DNA damage during replication. The protein helps to prevent mutations by inserting the correct nucleotide opposite a damaged or missing nucleotide, thus helping to prevent errors in the genetic code.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Locations:
* HGNC: HGNC:9177
* NCBI Entrez: 5429
* Ensembl: ENSG00000112379
* OMIM: 603968
* UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y253
* Aliases: RAD30B


## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
* L210M - rs104894507
* R111G - rs41253786
* R61Q - rs121918022

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
* c.948_949insT - rs267607213
* c.748C>T - rs146045943
* c.892A>G - rs267607211

## Related Diseases:
* Xeroderma pigmentosum variant (XPV)
* Colorectal cancer
* Glioma
* Lung cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis:
* There is no cure for XPV, as it is a genetic condition, but patients can take steps to prevent skin cancer by minimizing exposure to UV radiation, using protective clothing, and applying sunscreen.
* Prognosis varies based on the individual and their overall health.

## Drug Response:
* POLH mutations have been associated with increased sensitivity to certain chemotherapy drugs, such as cisplatin, in patients with colorectal cancer.

## Related Papers:
* Subject: Comprehensive analyses of somatic TP53 mutation in tumors with evidence of xeroderma pigmentosum
  * Author: Oka et al.
  * DOI: 10.1016/S0008-6363(17)30794-7

* Subject: Association of novel polymorphisms and haplotypes in the DNA repair gene RAD30A with reduced risk of lung and upper aerodigestive tract cancers
  * Author: Zhang et al.
  * DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2008.07.014

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**