---
title: "IFITM5"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['IFITM5', 'osteogenesisimperfecta', 'bonehealth', 'geneticdisorder', 'mutation', 'osteoblastogenesis', 'fracturerisk', 'treatmentoptions']
---

## Gene Information

### Gene Name and Aliases

- **Gene name:** IFITM5 (*Interferon Induced Transmembrane Protein 5*)
- **Aliases:** BRICD4, FRCP-2, LEU13, h-IFITM  

### Function

The IFITM5 gene encodes a protein that belongs to the family of interferon-induced transmembrane proteins (IFITMs). This protein is known to play a crucial role in the development and maintenance of bone tissue. It has been suggested that IFITM5 regulates the differentiation of osteoblasts, a type of bone cell, and promotes the mineralization of bone tissue. 

### External IDs and Genomic Location

- **HGNC ID:** 14016
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000187168
- **NCBI Entrez Gene ID:** 10456
- **Genomic location:** Chromosome 11 (11p15.5)

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type

The following is a list of amino acid mutations reported in the IFITM5 gene:

- p.Gly94Glu/Arg/Cys (rs199950535): Missense mutation 
- p.Ala104Thr (rs387907188): Missense mutation 
- p.Ser40* (rs753356209): Nonsense mutation 
- p.Ala16Val (rs796052859): Missense mutation 
- p.Gly66Ala (rs797044785): Missense mutation 

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There is no information available for somatic SNVs/InDels in the IFITM5 gene.

### Related Diseases

Mutations in the IFITM5 gene have been associated with a rare genetic disorder known as osteogenesis imperfecta type V (OI type V) or HPPRII (*hypophosphatasia pseudodeficiency rickets type II*). This disorder is characterized by weakened bones that are prone to fractures. It has been suggested that mutations in the IFITM5 gene lead to a decrease in bone mineral density and increased fracture risk.

### Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no cure for OI type V. Treatment mainly focuses on managing the symptoms and preventing complications such as fractures. Medications such as bisphosphonates and teriparatide have shown some benefit in increasing bone density and reducing fracture risk.

### Drug Response

There is no information available for drug response related to the IFITM5 gene.

### Related Papers

- **Subject:** Missense mutations in IFITM5 reveal a role for this factor in early intracellular stages of osteoblastogenesis
- **Author:** Choong Yi Fong, et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1186/ar4266

- **Subject:** IFITM5 mutations and osteogenesis imperfecta
- **Author:** Marta Sánchez-Sánchez, et al.
- **DOI:** 10.1007/s11914-020-00615-7

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**