---
title: "GADD45A"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: GADD45A"
tags: ['GADD45A', 'Cancer', 'DNArepair', 'Apoptosis', 'Polymorphisms', 'DrugResponse', 'Epigenetics', 'TET1']
---

## Gene: GADD45A

### Genetic position
The gene GADD45A is located on chromosome 1 at the position 1p31.2.

### Pathology
GADD45A has been found to be involved in various cancer types and is known to promote DNA repair, cell cycle arrest, and apoptosis. Decreased expression of GADD45A has been found in several cancers, including lung, liver, gastric, breast, and prostate cancer. Moreover, certain polymorphisms in GADD45A have been associated with an increased risk of developing lung and breast cancer.

### Function
GADD45A is a member of the growth arrest and DNA damage-inducible (GADD) family of proteins. It functions as a stress sensor for the cell and is known to interact with several signaling pathways, including p38/JNK MAPK, NF-kappaB, and p53.

### External IDs
- HGNC: 4164
- NCBI Entrez: 1647
- Ensembl: ENSG00000117407
- OMIM: 126335
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q92804

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There are several missense mutations reported in the GADD45A gene. Some of them are:

|AA Change|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|---------|------------|--------|
|L10F|Missense|rs28903096|
|C68Y|Missense|rs28903095|
|I130T|Missense|rs146974151|

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are several somatic mutations reported in the GADD45A gene. Some of them are:

|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|------------|--------|
|Missense|rs7973253|
|Frameshift|rs545901005|
|Nonsense|rs372230466|

### Related disease
GADD45A has been found to be associated with several diseases, including:
- Cancer
- Neurodegenerative disorders
- Cardiovascular diseases

### Treatment and prognosis
There is no specific treatment available for GADD45A-related diseases. The prognosis varies depending on the type and severity of the disease.

### Drug response
There is limited information available on drug response related to GADD45A. However, some studies have shown that certain anticancer drugs, such as cisplatin, can induce GADD45A expression.

### Related Papers
1. Paper 1: Subject: GADD45A expression and its epigenetic regulation in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma	
   Author: Zhang Y et al.
   DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2019.03.019
2. Paper 2: Subject: GADD45A polymorphism and its association with breast cancer risk	
   Author: Li X et al.
   DOI: 10.1186/s12885-015-1363-5
3. Paper 3: Subject: GADD45A promotes DNA demethylation through the activation of TET1 in hepatocellular carcinoma	
   Author: Liu J et al.
   DOI: 10.1093/carcin/bgw075

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**