---
title: "USP15"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: USP15"
tags: ['USP15', 'DeubiquitinatingEnzyme', 'Cancer', 'NeurodegenerativeDisorders', 'InflammatoryDiseases', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'GeneticInformationAnalyst']
---

## Gene: USP15

### Genetic Position:
- Chromosome: 12
- Location: 98,581,212-98,636,895 bp (GRCh38.p13)

### Pathology:
- USP15 has been associated with various diseases such as cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, and inflammatory diseases.

### Function:
- USP15 encodes a deubiquitinating enzyme that functions in various cellular pathways, including DNA damage repair, autophagy, and immune signaling. It plays a critical role in regulating the turnover of various proteins by removing ubiquitin molecules from them.

### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 12519
- Ensembl: ENSG00000135202
- NCBI Entrez: 9967
- OMIM: 607685
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9Y4E8
- Aliases: KIAA0529, UNPH4, UBP15

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- No amino acid mutations have been reported for USP15 in dbSNP

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- The following somatic mutations in USP15 have been reported in dbSNP:
    - rs1427091908
    - rs555064657
    - rs886037307

### Related Disease:
- USP15 has been implicated in the development and progression of various types of cancer, including breast cancer, lung cancer, and hepatocellular carcinoma. It has also been linked to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease, as well as inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis.

### Treatment and Prognosis:
- Currently, there are no specific treatments targeting USP15. However, its inhibition has been suggested as a potential therapeutic strategy for the treatment of cancer and neurodegenerative disorders.

### Drug Response:
- There is limited research on the drug response of USP15.

### Related Papers:
- *Author: Holowatyj AN*
- *Title: Single nucleotide polymorphisms in the one-carbon metabolism pathway genes and susceptibility to colorectal cancer in the Southern Community Cohort Study*
- *Journal: Molecular Carcinogenesis*
- *DOI: 10.1002/mc.22586*

- *Author: Dimitrova YN*
- *Title: Decoding ubiquitin-mediated signaling with chemical tools*
- *Journal: Nature Chemical Biology*
- *DOI: 10.1038/s41589-020-0571-6*

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**