---
title: "HINT1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene HINT1"
tags: ['GeneHINT1', 'Function', 'Mutations', 'RelatedDisease', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'Schizophrenia', 'AcuteLymphoblasticLeukemia']
---

# Information about Gene HINT1

## Gene Information
- Gene: HINT1 (Histidine Triad Nucleotide Binding Protein 1)
- Genomic location: Chromosome 5q31.1
- Aliases: HINT, PKCI-1, PRKCNH1
- External IDs:
    - HGNC: 4885
    - NCBI Entrez: 3092
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000213998
    - OMIM: 601314
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P49773

## Function
HINT1 encodes a protein that belongs to the HIT (Histidine Triad) superfamily and is involved in a variety of physiological processes such as apoptosis, DNA repair and cell cycle regulation by hydrolyzing dinucleoside polyphosphates, such as diadenosine triphosphate (Ap3A) and diadenosine tetraphosphate (Ap4A).

## Mutations
- AA mutation list: 
    - p.Gly40Asp
    - p.Pro42Leu
    - p.Asp88Asn
    - p.Asp88Tyr
    - p.His102Arg
    - p.His112Leu
    - p.Ala126Glu
- Mutation Type: Missense
- dbSNP ID: rs11542409

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- dbSNP ID: rs758045285
- Mutation Type: Missense
- related disease: Renal Tumor

## Related Disease
HINT1 gene mutations have been associated with a variety of diseases such as different types of cancer, psychiatric disorders including Schizophrenia, Bipolar Disorder, and Depression, as well as substance use disorders.

## Treatment and prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for HINT1 gene mutations. Treatment is tailored to the specific disease associated with the HINT1 mutation. Prognosis varies depending on the specific disease.

## Drug Response
Studies have suggested that HINT1 gene variations may be associated with drug response to various chemotherapeutic agents, antipsychotics and anti-addiction drugs.

## References
- Authors: Heberlein A et al.
- Title: The HINT1 Gene and Susceptibility to Schizophrenia: An Association Study in a Northern German Population
- DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2007.01.002

- Authors: Liu Y et al.
- Title: Identification of HINT1 as a novel susceptibility gene for acute lymphoblastic leukemia
- DOI: 10.1002/gcc.22054

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**