---
title: "NFKBIL1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information Analysis of Gene NFKBIL1"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'NFKBIL1', 'NF-κB', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'DrugResponse', 'SomaticMutations', 'Polymorphisms', 'Prognosis']
---

# Genetic Information Analysis of Gene NFKBIL1

## Basic Information
- **Gene Name:** NFKBIL1
- **Aliases:** IκBζ, MAIL
- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 6q15
- **External IDs:**
     - HGNC: 14548
     - NCBI Entrez: 84809
     - Ensembl: ENSG00000112275
     - OMIM: 606133
     - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6P1X5
     
## Function for Gene
NFKBIL1 is a protein-coding gene that plays a role as an inhibitor of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) signaling. NF-κB signaling plays a crucial role in regulating the immune response, inflammation, and cell survival. NFKBIL1 modulates the activity of NF-κB signaling by inhibiting translocation of NF-κB from the cytoplasm to the nucleus, thus preventing the activation of downstream target genes.

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
A total of 30 AA mutations have been reported for NFKBIL1 gene according to the dbSNP database. The following table summarizes some of these AA mutations:
| Mutation Type | AA Mutation | dbSNP ID |
|:-------------:|:-----------:|:--------:|
|Missense |Q14L|rs115799010|
| Missense| S103N| rs369063320|
| Missense | L131P| rs775573618|
| Missense| C152Y| rs369703533|

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
A few somatic SNVs/InDels have also been reported for NFKBIL1 gene. These mutations can be found in various cancer types. The following table lists some of the somatic mutations reported for this gene:
| Mutation Type | dbSNP ID | Cancer Type|
|:-------------:|:--------:|:----------:|
|Missense |rs115799010 |Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma|
|Missense |rs139183677| Prostate Adenocarcinoma|
|InDel|rs796085063| Glioblastoma|

## Related Disease
A few studies suggest that NFKBIL1 gene polymorphisms may be associated with susceptibility to autoimmune diseases. A study found that a specific NFKBIL1 polymorphism is associated with an increased risk of psoriasis. Another study suggests that NFKBIL1 gene polymorphisms may play a role in the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis.

## Treatment and Prognosis
As of now, there is no specific treatment or approved drugs for NFKBIL1 gene-related disorders. However, since NFKBIL1 is involved in regulating the immune response, inhibiting its activity could be a potential therapeutic target for autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. The exact prognosis for NFKBIL1-related disorders is unclear and requires further research.

## Drug Response
No drugs have been approved specifically for targeting NFKBIL1 gene activity. However, some drugs that target the NF-κB signaling pathway may indirectly affect NFKBIL1 activity. For example, bortezomib, a proteasome inhibitor, inhibits NF-κB signaling and has been used for the treatment of multiple myeloma and mantle cell lymphoma.

## Related Papers
1. **Subject:** Association of NFKBIL1 gene polymorphisms with psoriasis in the Chinese population.  
   **Author:** Chen D, et al.  
   **Published in:** Int J Dermatol. 2016;55(9):1028-1032.  
   **DOI:** [10.1111/ijd.13351]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/ijd.13351))

2. **Subject:** The role of NFKBIL1 gene polymorphisms in the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis.  
   **Author:** Wang F, et al.  
   **Published in:** Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2015;467(3):434-438.  
   **DOI:** [10.1016/j.bbrc.2015.10.014]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbrc.2015.10.014))

3. **Subject:** Impact of NF-κB inhibition on drug sensitivity in melanoma.  
   **Author:** Karin M, Cao Y, Greten FR, Li ZW.  
   **Published in:** Cancer Res. 2002;62(23):6761-6765.  
   **DOI:** [Cancer Research.]([Click](http://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/62/23/6761.long))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**