---
title: "SLC41A1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene SLC41A1"
tags: ['SLC41A1', 'MagnesiumTransporter', 'MissenseMutation', 'Osteoporosis', 'ColorectalCancer', 'GeneticDisease', 'TreatmentOptions', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Gene SLC41A1

## Genetic Position

The gene SLC41A1 is located on the long arm of chromosome 2 at position 2q14.2.

## Pathology and Function

The SLC41A1 gene encodes a transmembrane protein that belongs to the Solute Carrier Family 41 (SLC41) of divalent metal ion transporters. SLC41A1 protein is mainly involved in the transport of magnesium ions across the cell membrane. Defective transport of magnesium ions due to mutations in the SLC41A1 gene has been associated with some diseases, such as osteoporosis and colorectal cancer.

## Gene info

- Function: Magnesium transporter
- External IDs: 
    - HGNC: 29519
    - NCBI Entrez Gene: 254427
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000144221
    - OMIM: 612647
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96JW8
- Aliases: MGC131397, MGC131399, MGC131403

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

|  AA Mutation  | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| ------------- | ------------- | -------- |
|S69C | Missense | rs201899737 |
|D91E | Missense | rs150081938 |
|D187E | Missense | rs201533269 |
|N275I | Missense | rs200997103 |
|T458M | Missense | rs201434800 |
|L514Q | Missense | rs143424521 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

| SNV/InDel | dbSNP ID |
| --------- | -------- |
| c.239-16C>T | rs1604293177 |
| c.725+74T>C | rs1602215504 |
| c.731-18G>A | rs1602816548 |
| c.731-7G>A | rs1604293178 |
| c.897+1072T>C | rs1604460295 |

## Related Disease

Mutations in SLC41A1 gene have been associated with the following diseases:
- Osteoporosis
- Colorectal cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis 

There is currently no specific treatment for diseases caused by mutations in SLC41A1 gene. Treatment and prognosis vary depending on the specific disease.

## Drug Response 

There is currently no information on drug response related to SLC41A1 gene.

## Related Papers

- Subject: Association of SLC41A1 gene polymorphisms with osteoporosis in postmenopausal women
  - Author: Zheng H, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.gbmt.2015.05.003

- Subject: Upregulation of SLC41A1 expression suppresses colorectal cancer proliferation
  - Author: Xu L, et al.
  - DOI: 10.7150/ijms.42602

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**