---
title: "ANGPTL4"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene ANGPTL4"
tags: ['ANGPTL4', 'LipidMetabolism', 'GlucoseMetabolism', 'MetabolicDisorders', 'Cancer', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'PersonalizedMedicine']
---

# Information about Gene ANGPTL4

**Genetic position**: Chromosome 19p13.3  
**Pathology**: ANGPTL4 plays a role in lipid and glucose metabolism and angiogenesis. It is involved in regulating triglyceride and free fatty acid levels. Defective ANGPTL4 expression can lead to insulin resistance and other metabolic disorders.  
**Function**: ANGPTL4 encodes a protein called angiopoietin-like 4 that is involved in regulating lipid and glucose metabolism and angiogenesis.  
**Aliases**: ANGPTL2, ARP4, FIAF, HFARP, PGAR, pp1158, UNQ555/PRO1104  
**External IDs**: 
- HGNC: 24598  
- NCBI Entrez: 51129  
- Ensembl: ENSG00000104584  
- OMIM: 603776  
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BY76  

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:  
- c.7C>T (p.Ala3Val) - rs41292673  
- c.686G>A (p.Val229Met) - rs1800194  
- c.841T>G (p.Ile281Met) - rs7255623  

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:  
- c.107G>A (p.Glu36Lys) - rs778681282  
- c.410C>T (p.Ala137Val) - rs201480507  

**Related disease**: Mutations in the ANGPTL4 gene have been associated with various metabolic disorders, including type 2 diabetes, obesity, and metabolic syndrome.  

**Treatment and prognosis**: No specific treatment for ANGPTL4-related disorders currently exists, as such, treatments focus on the management of symptoms and reducing risk factors for associated conditions. Personalized medicine could be an option in the future for targeted treatment.  

**Drug response**: There is some evidence suggesting that ANGPTL4 plays a role in the development and progression of certain types of cancers, and that targeting ANGPTL4 may be a potential strategy for cancer treatment.
 
### References:
- Dewey FE, Gusarova V, O'Dushlaine C, et al. (2016). "Inactivating variants in ANGPTL4 and risk of coronary artery disease". N Engl J Med. 374 (12): 1123–33. 
- Georgiadi A, Lichtenstein L (2010). "Deregulation of angiopoietin-like (ANGPTL) proteins in lipodystrophy and obesity". Endocrine. 38 (3): 234–41. 
- Kim W, Kim H, Kwon Y, et al. (2017). "Prognostic significance of ANGPTL4 expression and its association with PI3K/AKT pathway in gastric cancer". Anticancer Res. 37 (3): 1381–1389.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**