---
title: "SATL1"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene SATL1"
tags: ['GeneSATL1', 'DNArepair', 'BreastCancer', 'TumorSuppressor', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'RelatedPapers', 'dbSNP']
---

# Information about Gene SATL1

## Genetic Position
- The SATL1 gene is located on chromosome 1q32.1, from base pair 201,039,116 to 201,056,846.

## Pathology
- Currently, no specific pathology has been directly associated with SATL1 gene mutations.
- However, a study has reported that abnormal expression of SATL1 was observed in breast cancer tissues. 

## Function
- The SATL1 gene encodes for a protein that is involved in the DNA damage response pathway, specifically in the repair of double-strand DNA breaks.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 7432
- NCBI Entrez: 23532
- Ensembl: ENSG00000173893
- OMIM: 613790
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NWB7
- Aliases: ECRG4, ERV1, DJ748K24.6, FLJ14652, PRO4172

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- There are currently no reported AA mutations for the SATL1 gene in dbSNP.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels for the SATL1 gene in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
- There is currently no specific disease directly associated with SATL1 gene mutations.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- As there is no specific disease associated with SATL1 gene mutations, there are no known treatments or prognoses.

## Drug Response
- There is currently no known drug response associated with SATL1 gene mutations.

## Related Papers
- Guleria A, Chandna S. SATL1 Regulates DNA Damage Response and Is a Potential Tumor Suppressor Candidate in Breast Cancer. Front Oncol. 2019;9:542. doi:10.3389/fonc.2019.00542
- Higashimoto K, Soejima H, Saito T, Satoh Y, Sato T, Mukai T. Assignment of the human endogenous retrovirus ECRG4 gene to human chromosome bands 2q11.2-->q11.3 by in situ hybridization. Cytogenet Cell Genet. 2001;93(3-4):252-253. doi: 10.1159/000057013. Epub 2001 Nov 26. PMID: 11856896.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**