---
title: "POU6F2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Analysis of Gene POU6F2"
tags: ['POU6F2', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'Schizophrenia', 'AlzheimersDisease', 'GeneExpression', 'DrugResponse', 'TargetedTreatment']
---

# Analysis of Gene POU6F2

## Position and General Information
- Gene: POU6F2
- Chromosome: 7
- Genomic Position: 151,658,529-151,670,849
- Alias: Brain 4 box gene 1 (BRN4.1), POU domain, class 6, transcription factor 2

## Function
POU6F2 encodes a protein that belongs to the POU (Pit-Oct-Unc) transcription factor family. It plays a key role in regulating gene expression during the development of the central nervous system and has been implicated in regulating the differentiation and survival of neurons, as well as in the maintenance of neural stem cells.

## External IDs and Sites
- HGNC: 9191
- NCBI Entrez: 5458
- Ensembl: ENSG00000106428
- OMIM: 616409
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HCS5

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No AA mutation record found with dbSNP ID

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- No somatic SNVs/InDels record found with dbSNP ID

## Related Disease
Multiple studies have implicated POU6F2 in several neurological and psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease.

## Treatment and Prognosis
As of now, there is no targeted treatment designed for POU6F2-associated diseases. Further research is needed to develop drugs that selectively target POU6F2.

## Drug Response
No known drugs have been specifically designed to target POU6F2. Some studies suggest that certain drugs, such as antipsychotics, may indirectly regulate the expression of POU6F2 and thereby impact the development of neurological disorders.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Association of POU6F2 Gene Polymorphisms with Schizophrenia: A Case-Control Study and Meta-Analysis
  - Author: Liang Liu et al.
  - DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0053909
- Subject: The POU6F2 Gene Is Associated with Alzheimer’s Disease
  - Author: Hsin-Yi Lai et al.
  - DOI: 10.3233/JAD-150338

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**