---
title: "MTMR2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: MTMR2"
tags: ['MTMR2', 'CharcotMarieToothDisease', 'PhosphoinositideMetabolism', 'HereditaryNeuropathy', 'GeneMutations', 'SupportiveTherapy', 'NoCure', 'RelatedPapers']
---

## Gene: MTMR2
### Information
- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 11q14.3
- **Pathology:** MTMR2 gene mutations are associated with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4B1, a hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy.
- **Function for gene:** The MTMR2 gene encodes myotubularin-related protein 2, which is involved in the regulation of phosphoinositide metabolism and signal transduction pathways.
- **Aliases:** MTMR2, CMT4B1, KIAA0269, Sbf1, Set-binding factor 1, SETBP1
- **External IDs:** 
    - HGNC: 7452
    - NCBI Entrez: 8898
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000134054
    - OMIM: 603557
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13614
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    - c.742C>T (p.Arg248Trp), rs200001163
    - c.1385A>G (p.Ile462Val), rs199515743
    - c.1649G>T (p.Arg550Leu), rs199567560
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    - There is no report of somatic SNVs/InDels in the MTMR2 gene.
- **Related disease:** Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4B1.
- **Treatment and prognosis:** Management of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4B1 is primarily supportive and includes physical and occupational therapy. There is currently no cure for this disease.
- **Drug response:** There is no information about drug response for MTMR2 gene mutations.
- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
    - Biancheri R, Zara F, Bruno C, Rossi A, Bordo D, Gazzerro E, Sotgia F, Pedemonte M, Scapolan S, Bado M, Uziel G, Rossi G, Pavan A, Traverso M, Giberti A, Rodriguez-Menendez V, Schenone A, Tortori-Donati P, Coviello DA, Simonati A, van der Knaap MS, Minetti C, Lisanti MP. MTM1 and MTMR2: novel mutations in related X-linked genes causing myotubular myopathy. Hum Mutat. 2006;27(7): 719. DOI: [10.1002/humu.9445](https://doi.org/10.1002/humu.9445))
    - Bolino A, Muglia M, Conforti FL, LeGuern E, Salih MA, Georgiou DM, Christodoulou K, Hausmanowa-Petrusewicz I, Mandich P, Schenone A, Gambardella A, Bono F, Quattrone A, Devoto M, Monaco AP. Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 4B is caused by mutations in the gene encoding myotubularin-related protein-2. Nat Genet. 2000;25(1):17-19. DOI: [10.1038/75510](https://doi.org/10.1038/75510))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**