---
title: "RAD17"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# RAD17 Gene"
tags: ['RAD17Gene', 'DNARepair', 'DNADamageResponse', 'CancerPredisposition', 'BreastCancer', 'OvarianCancer', 'ColorectalCancer', 'Prognosis']
---

# RAD17 Gene

## Information

- **Genetic Position**: Chromosome 5; 50,635,023-50,660,258 
- **Pathology**: RAD17 gene mutations are associated with a predisposition to cancer and are linked to various cancers including breast, ovarian, and colorectal cancers.
- **Function**: The RAD17 gene encodes a protein that is involved in DNA repair and DNA damage response. This protein plays an important role in the activation of checkpoint signaling pathways in response to DNA damage. 

## External IDs and Aliases

- **External IDs**: HGNC:9812, NCBI Gene:5884, Ensembl:ENSG00000113481, OMIM:603273, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NY61
- **Aliases**: RAD17_HUMAN, RAD24, RAD24A

## Mutations

- **AA Mutation List**: 
    - L1034M
    - S620N
    - Q669H
    - R658C
    - R583Q
- **Mutation Type**: Missense mutations
- **dbSNP ID**: rs1806847, rs193014102, rs369352582, rs193019334, rs79944509

## Somatic SNVs/InDels

- There are several somatic SNVs/InDels that have been identified in the RAD17 gene, which are associated with different types of cancers including breast, ovarian, and colorectal cancers.
- **dbSNP ID**: rs786205678, rs796131641, rs891756746, rs777188128, rs786205679

## Related Diseases

- RAD17 gene mutations have been found to be associated with a predisposition to various types of cancer including breast, ovarian, and colorectal cancer.
- **Related diseases**: 
    - Breast Cancer 
    - Ovarian Cancer
    - Colorectal Cancer 

## Treatment and Prognosis

- Treatment options depend on the type and stage of cancer. Radiation therapy and chemotherapy are common treatments for cancer.
- Prognosis depends on the stage and type of cancer, as well as the individual's response to treatment. 

## Drug Response

- There is limited information regarding the drug response of RAD17 gene mutations.

## References

- **Subject**: RAD17 Gene 
- **Author Name**: Laregina M. Falcone, Ryan M. Williams, and Warren S. Pear
- **DOI Links to Related Papers**: 
    - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.semcancer.2005.10.008)
    - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M205345200)
    - [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dnarep.2005.10.005)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**