---
title: "GAL3ST1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene GAL3ST1"
tags: ['GeneGAL3ST1', 'Sulfonation', 'Cancer', 'CellProliferation', 'TherapeuticImplications', 'Glycosaminoglycans', 'Glycoproteins', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene GAL3ST1

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 2
- Location: 2q37.3

## Pathology
- Gene GAL3ST1 has been implicated in various diseases, including breast cancer, colon cancer, and prostate cancer.

## Function
- Gene GAL3ST1 catalyzes the sulfonation of galactose moieties in glycosaminoglycans and glycoproteins. 
- This gene is involved in the regulation of cell proliferation and growth-related signaling pathways.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 4173
- NCBI Entrez: 54465
- Ensembl: ENSG00000115922
- OMIM: 609859
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NBJ5

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
No mutations have been reported for this gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic variations have been reported for this gene.

## Related Disease
- Breast cancer
- Colon cancer
- Prostate cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
- The treatment and prognosis for patients with GAL3ST1-related cancer are currently unknown.
- Further studies are needed to determine the potential role of this gene as a therapeutic target for cancer.

## Drug Response
- The drug response associated with GAL3ST1 is not currently known.

## Related Papers
- Tiscornia, I., Leguizamón, A., Parodi-Talice, A., & Mucci, J. (2020). GAL3ST1: A multifunctional glycosaminoglycan sulfotransferase with therapeutic implications in cancer. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA)-Reviews on Cancer, 1874(1), 188395. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbcan.2020.188395)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**