---
title: "PMM2"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PMM2 "
tags: ['PMM2', 'CongenitalDisordersOfGlycosylation', 'CDG1a', 'GlycosylationPathway', 'MissenseMutation', 'TreatmentManagement', 'GeneticCharacteristics', 'Neurodevelopment']
---

# Information about Gene PMM2 

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function

PMM2 is a gene located on chromosome 16 at the band p13.2. This gene encodes an enzyme named phosphomannomutase 2, which plays a crucial role in the glycosylation pathway. Glycosylation is the process of attaching sugar molecules to proteins, lipids, or other organic molecules that are transported within or outside of cells. PMM2 enzyme converts mannose-6-phosphate to mannose-1-phosphate, which is an essential step in N-glycosylation. Mutations in the PMM2 gene lead to a disorder called congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG). CDG is a group of rare inherited metabolic disorders characterized by abnormal glycosylation of proteins, lipids, and other molecules. The CDG type 1a is the most frequent form and results from mutations in the PMM2 gene.

## Function for Gene

The PMM2 gene provides instructions for making an enzyme that plays a crucial role in the glycosylation pathway. This pathway is responsible for attaching sugar molecules to other molecules, and this process is required for the normal functioning of cells.

## External IDs and Aliases

The external IDs for the PMM2 gene and its genomic location include: 

- HGNC: 9116
- NCBI Entrez: 5373
- Ensembl: ENSG00000103747
- OMIM: 601785
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O15305

The aliases for the PMM2 gene are:

- CDG1
- CDG1A
- GDP-mannose-3',5'-epimerase-4'-reductase
- PGM3
- PMM

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

The following mutations occur in the PMM2 gene, which mainly cause CDG1a:

Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID
-------- | -------------| --------
p.Arg141His | Missense | rs104894409
p.Pro113Leu | Missense | rs267606810
p.Gln123Lys | Missense | rs104894412
p.Asp65Gly | Missense | rs104894422
p.Val231Met | Missense | rs78463329

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are no known somatic SNVs/InDels associated with the PMM2 gene.

## Related Disease

Mutations in the PMM2 gene leads to a group of rare inherited metabolic disorders known as Congenital Disorders of Glycosylation (CDG). CDG is characterized by abnormal glycosylation of proteins, lipids, and other molecules.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is no cure for CDG1a, and management focuses on treating the symptoms. Treatment may include nutritional supplements, physiotherapy, and medications targeted towards specific symptoms.

## Drug Response

There is no known drug response for CDG1a.

## Related Papers

- Jae JL et al. (2021) Clinical phenotypes and genetic characteristics of Korean patients with congenital disorders of glycosylation. J Hum Genet. DOI: 10.1038/s10038-020-00910-4
- Melegh B. et al. (2020) The Several Faces of Congenital Disorders of Glycosylation-Impaired Protein Glycosylation That May Affect Neurodevelopment. Front Neurosci. DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2020.00528
- Freeze HH. et al. (2020) Congenital Disorders of Glycosylation: CDG-I, CDG-II, and Beyond. Curr Mol Biol Rep. DOI: 10.1007/s40610-019-00125-x

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**