---
title: "LHFPL5"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene LHFPL5"
tags: ['LHFPL5', 'HearingLoss', 'GeneticMutation', 'DFNB67', 'TransmembraneProtein', 'InnerEar', 'TreatmentOptions', 'QualityOfLife']
---

# Gene LHFPL5

## Genetic Position
The LHFPL5 gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 6 at position 21.33 (6p21.33) with genomic coordinates of 29,148,882 to 29,183,088.

## Pathology
Mutations in the LHFPL5 gene have been associated with autosomal recessive nonsyndromic hearing loss.

## Function
The LHFPL5 gene encodes a transmembrane protein that is involved in the development and maintenance of hair cells in the inner ear. It is also involved in the trafficking and localization of other proteins in the stereocilia of the hair cells.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 28946
- NCBI Entrez: 643864
- Ensembl: ENSG00000137141
- OMIM: 611261
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6UX04
- Aliases: TMC5

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.235C>T, p.Arg79Trp, rs745297249
- c.419G>T, p.Arg140Leu, rs760388672
- c.404C>T, p.Gln135Ter, rs886037262
- c.225C>G, p.Pro75Arg, rs768959338
- c.143T>C, p.Leu48Ser, rs757987027

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs/InDels associated with LHFPL5 gene could be found in dbSNP.

## Related Disease
Mutations in the LHFPL5 gene have been linked to autosomal recessive nonsyndromic hearing loss. Specifically, the mutations cause a type of hearing loss known as DFNB67.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no known cure for DFNB67 caused by LHFPL5 mutations. Treatment options focus on alleviating symptoms and improving quality of life and may include hearing aids and cochlear implants.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response associated with LHFPL5 mutations.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Mutations of LHFPL5 in autosomal recessive nonsyndromic hearing loss.
  - Author: Ma J, Zhang XL, Wang D, Zhao YL, Suo F, Li L.
  - DOI: 10.1002/mgg3.594
- Subject: Molecular genetics of hearing loss in the Turkish population.
  - Author: Bademci G, Foster J 2nd, Mahdieh N, Bonyadi M, Duman D, Cengiz FB, Menendez I, Diaz-Horta O, Shirkavand A, Zeinali S, Subasioglu A, Tokgoz-Yilmaz S, Huesca-Hernandez F, de la Luz Arenas-Sordo M, Dominguez-Aburto J, Hernandez-Zamora E, Montenegro P, Paredes R, Moreta G, State M, Yildirim-Baylan M, Blanton S, Tekin M.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2015.05.002

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**