---
title: "THBS2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene THBS2"
tags: ['THBS2', 'GeneExpression', 'Pathology', 'Disease', 'Prognosis', 'Biomarker', 'TherapeuticPotential', 'SomaticMutations']
---

# Information about Gene THBS2

## Genetic Position
- THBS2 gene is located on chromosome 6: 103,775,837-103,843,542.
- It is present on the minus strand of DNA at the location 6q27.

## Pathology and Function
- THBS2 gene codes for thrombospondin-2, which is a glycoprotein responsible for cell-ECM interactions, tissue remodeling, and angiogenesis.
- Studies suggest that THBS2 expression is altered in various pathological conditions, including cancers, cardiovascular, and neurological diseases.

## Gene ID and Aliases
- Gene ID: 7058
- Aliases: TSP2, THBS3

## External IDs and Links
- HGNC: 11804
- NCBI Entrez: 7058
- Ensembl: ENSG00000135474
- OMIM: 188061
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P35442

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- No pathogenic AA mutations have been found in the THBS2 gene according to ClinVar Database.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Somatic mutations in THBS2 are rare and limited in number. Only a few single nucleotide variants and insertions/deletions have been identified so far, with no clear pathogenic or clinical significance.
- Some of the reported somatic SNVs/InDels in THBS2 are enlisted below:

|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|Cancer Type|
|-------------|--------|-----------|
|SNV|rs1804886|Colorectal|
|SNV|rs11913903|Melanoma|
|SNV|rs2239699|Head and neck|
|InDel|rs750899708|Lung adenocarcinoma|

## Related Disease
- THBS2 expression is reported to be dysregulated in various diseases, including cancer, cardiovascular disorders, and neurological disorders.
- Some significant findings are as follows:
    - Colorectal cancer: Down-regulated expression of THBS2 is shown to be associated with poor prognosis in colon and rectal cancer patients [1].
    - Melanoma: THBS2 is identified as one of the 5 genes whose expression is significantly associated with metastatic progression in melanoma patients [2].
    - Cardiovascular disease: Higher plasma levels of THBS2 are shown to be associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events in the general population [3].
    
## Treatment and Prognosis
- There are no specific treatments available to target THBS2 expression or function in diseases. 
- However, studies suggest that regulation of THBS2 levels may have therapeutic potential in various pathological conditions, including cancer, cardiovascular, and neurological disorders.
- The clinical significance of THBS2 expression as a prognostic biomarker may vary depending on the disease context.

## Drug Response
- No information available at present.

## References
1. [Chen et al., 2017.]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28453567/))
2. [Valladares-Ayerbes et al., 2012.]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22474112/))
3. [Willeit et al., 2018.]([Click](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29146843/))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**