---
title: "ATP1A3"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene ATP1A3"
tags: ['ATP1A3', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'NaKATPase', 'Mutation', 'SymptomManagement', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis', 'DopaminergicNeuronalLoss']
---

## Gene ATP1A3

**Genetic Position:** Chromosome 19q13.2

**Pathology:** Heterozygous mutations in the ATP1A3 gene are associated with a range of neurological disorders collectively known as ATP1A3-related neurologic disorders, which include Rapid-onset Dystonia-Parkinsonism (RDP), Alternating Hemiplegia of Childhood (AHC), and CAPOS syndrome.

**Function:** The ATP1A3 gene encodes the alpha-3 subunit of the Na+/K+-ATPase enzyme, which is responsible for maintaining the electrochemical gradients of sodium and potassium ions across cell membranes. This is essential for normal neuronal function.

**External IDs:**
- HGNC: 857
- NCBI Entrez: 476
- Ensembl: ENSG00000069179
- OMIM: 182350
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P13637

**Aliases:** ATP1ALPHA3, AHC2, RDP, DMA, CTS, FHM2, MHP2

**AA Mutation List:**

| Mutation | Type | dbSNP ID |
| --- | --- | --- |
| E174K | Missense | rs121918632 |
| G316S | Missense | rs267607176 |
| D801N | Missense | rs104894080 |
| D923N | Missense | rs398123096 |
| G947R | Missense | rs121918633 |
| D964N | Missense | rs398123097 |
| M129T | Missense | rs369041031 |
| N937D | Missense | rs759947195 |
| T613M | Missense | rs563354058 |
| V106M | Missense | rs797044952 |

**Somatic SNVs/InDels:**

There are currently no reported somatic mutations in the ATP1A3 gene.

**Related Disease:** ATP1A3-related neurologic disorders, which include Rapid-onset Dystonia-Parkinsonism (RDP), Alternating Hemiplegia of Childhood (AHC), and CAPOS syndrome.

**Treatment and Prognosis:** Treatment approaches for ATP1A3-related neurologic disorders are currently limited to symptom management. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of symptoms and the specific disorder.

**Drug Response:** There is currently no consensus on drug response for ATP1A3-related neurologic disorders, and treatment strategies are often individualized based on patient response.

**Subject:** ATP1A3-related disorders and Na+/K+-ATPase function

**Author:** Brashear A, Sweadner KJ, Cook JF, Swoboda KJ, Ozelius L, Di Bisceglie S, et al.

**DOI Links:**
- [Atp1a3 mutations in mice cause selective dopaminergic neuronal loss and motor deficits with parkinsonism]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0611723104))
- [The functional consequences of ATP1A3 mutations on cerebral dopamine neurotransmission]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41398-019-0648-0))
- [Consensus guideline for the diagnosis and treatment of pediatric `alternating hemiplegia of childhood']([Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/dmcn.15093))

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**