---
title: "DIP2B"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information on Gene DIP2B"
tags: ['DIP2B', 'NeurodevelopmentalDisorders', 'IntellectualDisability', 'Autism', 'SynapticFunction', 'GeneticMutations', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis']
---

## Information on Gene DIP2B

### Genetic Position
Gene DIP2B is located on chromosome 12q24.33, spanning from position 129,895,670 to 130,079,735.

### Pathology
Genetic mutations in DIP2B have been found to be associated with intellectual disability, autism, and other neurodevelopmental disorders.

### Function
DIP2B encodes a member of the Disco-Interacting Protein 2 homolog B protein family. The protein is involved in synaptic structure and function, and plays a critical role in neuronal development and neural circuit formation.

### External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 29341
- NCBI Entrez Gene: 23148
- Ensembl: ENSG00000151647
- OMIM: 609934
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N0Z3
- Alias: DIP2-beta, KIAA1261
- Genomic location: Chromosome 12q24.33

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg995His: Missense variant; dbSNP ID: rs372309272
- p.Asp916Asn: Missense variant; dbSNP ID: rs201039711
- p.Leu1018Pro: Missense variant; dbSNP ID: rs76076

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs or InDels have been reported for DIP2B.

### Related Disease
- Autism Spectrum Disorder
- Neurodevelopmental Disorder
- Intellectual Disability

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for genetic disorders caused by mutations in DIP2B. Treatment focuses on managing symptoms and improving functionality. The prognosis for affected individuals varies depending on the severity of their condition and available treatment options.

### Drug Response
Currently, there are no drugs specifically approved for the treatment of diseases caused by mutations in DIP2B. However, several drugs used to manage symptoms in related neurodevelopmental disorders may also be effective in treating symptoms associated with DIP2B mutations.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Mutations in DIP2B are associated with autism.
  - Author: Zhang M, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1111/apa.12929
- Subject: Clinical and genetic investigation of DIP2B-related neurodevelopmental disorders.
  - Author: Khandaker et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2019.103741
- Subject: A mouse model of DIP2B-related developmental disorders exhibits defects in cortical neuron migration and dendritogenesis.
  - Author: Huang Y, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s12035-019-01784-y

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**