---
title: "IL6"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene IL6"
tags: ['IL6', 'Cytokine', 'Inflammation', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'ClinicalTrials', 'Tocilizumab', 'COVID19', 'KidneyDisease']
---

# Information about gene IL6

## Genetic position
The IL6 gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 7 (7p21) from base pair 22,810,402 to base pair 22,822,503. 

## Pathology
The IL6 gene is associated with several pathological conditions, including multiple myeloma, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis.

## Function
The IL6 gene encodes for the cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6), which is involved in a variety of biological processes, such as inflammation, immune response, and hematopoiesis.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 6018
- Entrez Gene: 3569
- Ensembl: ENSG00000136244
- OMIM: 147620
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P05231
- Aliases: BSF-2, HGF, HSF, IFNB2

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- c.174G>C (p.Asp58His) rs1800795
- c.174G>T (p.Asp58Tyr) rs1800795

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.358+5G>T rs145689165
- c.512T>G (p.Ser171Ala) rs143839148

## Related disease
- Multiple myeloma
- Rheumatoid arthritis
- Systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis

## Treatment and prognosis
There are several ongoing clinical trials investigating the use of IL-6 inhibitors for the treatment of IL-6 driven diseases.

## Drug response
Tocilizumab is an anti-IL-6 receptor monoclonal antibody that has been approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis and cytokine release syndrome caused by CAR T cell therapy.

## Related papers
- Article title: Interleukin-6: A New Therapeutic Target for the Treatment of COVID-19. DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines8110461
- Article title: Interleukin-6 Receptor Signaling and Its Role in Kidney Disease: A Comprehensive Review. DOI: 10.3390/cells9030853
- Article title: Treatment of systemic rheumatic diseases during pregnancy: a review. DOI: 10.2116/analsci.20E042

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**