---
title: "CSMD1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene CSMD1"
tags: ['CSMD1', 'NeurodevelopmentalDisorders', 'ComplementCascade', 'Cancer', 'GeneticVariation', 'DrugTarget', 'Prognosis', 'CognitiveFunction']
---

## Gene CSMD1

### Genetic Position 
- Chromosome: 8
- Location: 8p23.2-p23.1

### Pathology 
- Implicated in multiple neurodevelopmental disorders including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, autism, and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
- A decreased expression level of CSMD1 have also been linked to an increased risk of lung, bladder, and breast cancer.

### Function 
- CSMD1 encodes a protein involved in the regulation of the complement cascade, a part of the innate immune system that helps clear foreign pathogens from the body.
- It is also involved in neural development and synaptic plasticity.

### External IDs 
- HGNC: 24951
- NCBI Entrez: 114784
- Ensembl: ENSG00000120868
- OMIM: 608397
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q96Q80

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.G182A (p.Arg61His) rs14197
- c.T381C (p.Leu127Pro) rs222ikel
- c.C2671T (p.Ser891Leu) rs3091145

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- c.G1693A (p.Ala565Thr) rs140818944
- c.A2180G (p.Lys727Glu) rs797501357
- c.C3211T (p.Thr1071Ile) rs9601058

### Related Disease
- Schizophrenia
- Bipolar disorder
- Autism
- Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
- Breast Cancer
- Bladder Cancer
- Lung Cancer

### Treatment and Prognosis
- No specific treatment has been identified yet, although research indicates that interventions targeting the complement system may help patients with neurodevelopmental disorders improve cognitive function.
- Prognosis varies depending on the disease and the individual.

### Drug Response
- Currently, there are no known drugs that specifically target CSMD1. 

### Related Papers
1. Author: Nikolas, M., & Drabant, E.
   - Title: "A study of genetic variation in the dopamine transporter and CSMD1 genes and their interaction effects on neurocognitive functioning in children."
   - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12311-011-0332-x)
2. Author: Zhang, C., et al. 
   - Title: "Complement C3a binding to its receptor as a molecular therapeutic target for non-small cell lung cancer."
   - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2407-13-7)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**