---
title: "BCAM"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene BCAM"
tags: ['GeneBCAM', 'ImmunoglobulinSuperfamily', 'CellAdhesion', 'Cancer', 'MissenseMutation', 'ClinicalSignificance', 'COSMICCancerGeneCensus', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene BCAM

## Information
- Gene: BCAM (aka LU)
- Chromosomal Location: 19q13.2
- Alias: Lutheran blood group glycoprotein
- Function: BCAM encodes a protein that is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. The protein contains two extracellular immunoglobulin-like domains, one transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain. This protein is involved in cell adhesion, specifically in the adhesion of red blood cells to endothelial cells. It is also found on endothelial cells of blood vessels in the brain where it mediates attachment and migration of leukocytes.
- External IDs: 
  - HGNC: 1032
  - NCBI Entrez: 4058
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000167350
  - OMIM: 111350
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P50895

## Mutations
- AA mutation list:
  - p.Glu421Asp
  - p.Pro264Leu
  - p.Arg256Cys
- Mutation type: Missense
- dbSNP ID: rs28942077, rs28942078, rs76981982

## Related Diseases
- Basal Cell Carcinoma
- Prostate Cancer
- Lung Cancer
- Melanoma
- Invasive Ductal Carcinoma
- Breast Cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
Treatment and prognosis for BCAM gene mutations are currently unknown.

## Drug Response
Drug response for BCAM gene mutations are currently unknown.

## Related Papers
- Author: Meng X, Liu M, Zhao Q, Liu P.
  - Title: Expression of BCAM and LAMA4 in non-small-cell lung cancer and its clinical significance.
  - Publication: Cancer Manag Res. 2018;10: 6901-6911.
  - DOI: 10.2147/CMAR.S187981

- Author: Sondka Z, Bamford S, Cole CG, et al.
  - Title: The COSMIC Cancer Gene Census: describing genetic dysfunction across all human cancers.
  - Publication: Nat Rev Cancer. 2018 May;18(5): 696-705.
  - DOI: 10.1038/s41568-018-0060-1

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**