---
title: "TSEN34"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: TSEN34"
tags: ['TSEN34', 'tRNA', 'splicing', 'PCH2B', 'missense', 'mutations', 'prognosis', 'drugresponse']
---

# Gene: TSEN34

## Basic Information
- Function: This gene encodes a subunit of the tRNA splicing endonuclease, which is responsible for the processing of intron-containing tRNAs.
- External IDs: HGNC:28751, NCBI Entrez: 55059, Ensembl: ENSG00000145881, OMIM: 615233, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8N1F7
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 9 (9q22.33)
- Aliases: C9orf135, tRNA splicing endonuclease subunit 34 

## Variation Information
- AA Mutation list: Six missense mutations have been identified in the TSEN34 gene: p.Ser165Leu, p.Pro207Leu, p.Pro243His, p.Thr271Ile, p.Thr271Met, p.Val3Ile. 
- Mutation Type: Missense mutations
- dbSNP ID: rs142328975, rs147964319, rs150746990, rs755303124, rs773466937, rs796052108
- Somatic SNVs/InDels: No somatic mutations have been reported for this gene.

## Related Diseases
- Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 2B (PCH2B) - This is an autosomal-recessive disorder that is caused by mutation in the TSEN54, TSEN2, TSEN34, or SEPSECS genes. PCH2B usually presents as nonprogressive cerebellar or cerebellar and spinal motor neuron dysfunction in the first year of life.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no cure for PCH2B, however, treatment is focused on managing symptoms associated with the disease. 
- The prognosis for individuals with PCH2B varies depending on the severity of symptoms and age of onset. 

## Drug Response
- There is no known drug that targets the TSEN34 gene specifically.

## References
- Patel, M., et al. (2015). A TSEN54 mutation in a Japanese patient with pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 2. Brain Dev, 37(5): 560-4. DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.braindev.2014.09.006)
- Genomics Education Programme. (2018). Pontocerebellar hypoplasia. Retrieved from: [Click](https://www.genomicseducation.hee.nhs.uk/media/3062/pontocerebellar-hypoplasia.pdf)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**