---
title: "COL7A1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: COL7A1"
tags: ['COL7A1', 'DEB', 'SkinDisorder', 'AnchoringFibrils', 'GeneTherapy', 'SomaticMutations', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: COL7A1
    
### Genetic Position and Pathology

- **Genetic Position**: Chromosome 3 (3p21.31)
- **Pathology**: Mutations in the COL7A1 gene lead to a skin disorder called dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (DEB) or inversa recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (RDEB-i).

### Function for Gene

The COL7A1 gene encodes for type VII collagen, a protein that is an essential component of anchoring fibrils which attach the epidermis to the dermis layer of skin. The protein is also found in other body tissues including oral mucosa, intestinal mucosa, and cornea.

### External IDs, Aliases, and Links

- **Gene ID**: 1294
- **Genomic location**: NC_000003.12 (30041323..30382935, complement)
- **Aliases**: EBD1, EBDCT, EBR1, KFSD, LC, C7A1, COL7A, EBD, EBD2, EBD3, EBR2, EBR3, MNCR
- **HGNC**: 2217
- **NCBI Entrez**: 1294
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000141604
- **OMIM**: 120120
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: P22796

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type

- c.6527dup (p.Gln2177Profs*7) Frameshift
- c.5057C>T (p.Arg1686*) Nonsense
- c.6526C>T (p.Arg2176*) Nonsense
- c.6199delC (p.Pro2067Argfs*16) Frameshift
- c.600T>A (p.Leu200His) Missense
- c.483+1G>A Splice site

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

- rs557891587
- rs796065072
- rs535141820
- rs879255362

### Related Disease

Mutations in COL7A1 are associated with various forms of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (DEB). Recessive forms of DEB, particularly RDEB-i, are associated with severe skin blistering, chronic wounds, and increased risk of squamous cell carcinoma.

### Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there is no cure for DEB, and treatment options aim to manage the symptoms, such as wound care and skin protection. Gene therapy and cell-based therapies are currently under investigation, but their efficacy and safety have yet to be established. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of the condition and genetic mutation present in the individual.

### Drug Response

There is no specific drug for DEB treatment. However, some medications, such as immunosuppressants, antibiotics, and anti-inflammatory drugs, may be used to manage symptoms such as infection and inflammation.

### Related Papers

- **Subject:** Gene therapy for recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa
- **Author:** Woodley, D. T.
- **DOI:** 10.1007/s13671-019-00287-7

- **Subject:** Inherited Epidermolysis Bullosa: New Diagnostic Criteria and Classification
- **Author:** Fine, J. D., Eady, R. A. J., Bauer, E. A., Briggaman, R. A., Bruckner-Tuderman, L., … Woodley, D. T.
- **DOI:** 10.1001/archderm.132.12.1435

- **Subject:** Gene Editing of Integrin β4 for Therapeutic Cloning of Recessive Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa Patient Keratinocytes
- **Author:** Liu, N., Matsumura, W., Li, Z., Wang, D., Li, S., & Tolar, J.
- **DOI:** 10.1089/scd.2016.0219

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**