---
title: "H6PD"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene H6PD"
tags: ['H6PD', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'Aliases', 'ExternalIDs']
---

# Information about gene H6PD

## Genetic Position
The H6PD (hexose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase) gene is located on chromosome 1 at 1p36.22.

## Pathology
Mutations in the H6PD gene have been associated with a rare inherited disorder called 11-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 deficiency (11BHSD1D). This disorder leads to an increased activity of the cortisol hormone in cells and tissues, which can result in early-onset obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension and dyslipidemia.

## Function
The H6PD gene encodes an enzyme which plays a crucial role in the metabolism of carbohydrates. The enzyme converts glucose-6-phosphate into 6-phosphogluconolactone in the presence of NADP. H6PD is essential in the regeneration of NADPH from NADP, which is subsequently required for many biosynthetic and antioxidant pathways in cells.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic location
- HGNC: 4914
- NCBI Entrez: 9562
- Ensembl: ENSG00000160785
- OMIM: 138090
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q92968

Aliases: H6PDH, G6PD

Genomic Location: Chromosome 1: 9,156,797- 9,188,85 bp (GRCh38/hg38)

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
- p.Ala90Thr (rs1057516853)
- p.Gly211Arg (rs367543739)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are no known somatic SNVs or InDels for the H6PD gene.

## Related Diseases
- 11-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 deficiency (11BHSD1D)

## Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment for 11BHSD1D aims to reduce the cortisol levels in the body and manage the associated metabolic disorders. This may include glucocorticoid receptor blockers, insulin sensitizers, lifestyle changes, and other supportive therapies. The prognosis of 11BHSD1D varies depending on the severity of the symptoms and the effectiveness of the treatment.

## Drug Response
There is no known drug response information for the H6PD gene.

## Related Papers
- Author: Tomlinson, J.W.;
  Title: 11Beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases in type 2 diabetes mellitus.                                                            
  Journal: Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism. 2007, 9(5), 823-834.
  DOI: 10.1111/j.1463-1326.2006.00689.x
  
- Author: Banerjee, S.;
  Title: 11beta-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase Type 1; A Potential Diagnostic and Therapeutic Target.                                                     
  Journal: Frontiers in Endocrinology. 2018, 9(594).
  DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2018.00594

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**