---
title: "MTA2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene MTA2"
tags: ['GeneMTA2', 'NuRDComplex', 'CancerProgression', 'HistoneDeacetylation', 'DrugResponse', 'Metastasis', 'MissenseMutations', 'TargetedTherapy']
---

# Information about Gene MTA2

## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
- **Genetic Position**: MTA2 is located on chromosome 19q13.33.
- **Pathology**: Studies have suggested that MTA2 gene is involved in tumor metastasis and progression of various types of cancer.
- **Function**: MTA2 is a component of the NuRD transcriptional repressor complex and plays a role in gene regulation, histone deacetylation, and chromatin remodeling.

## Gene Information
- **Function**: Transcriptional regulator 
- **External IDs**: 
    - HGNC: 7468
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000105383
    - NCBI Entrez: 9214
    - OMIM: 601515
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13330
- **Aliases**: MTA1L2, MTA2_HUMAN, MTA2R, p52, MTA2MR

## Mutations
- **AA Mutation List**: Some of the amino acid mutations in MTA2 gene include: 
    - S91A, S364N, L381F, S1020L, V143I, etc.
- **Mutation Type**: Missense mutations
- **dbSNP ID**: rs145508661, rs17852414, rs17856553, rs185673689, rs201172878, etc.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels
- **dbSNP ID**: rs2544707, rs2237693, rs2237694, rs2237697, rs3134094, etc.

## Related Diseases
- Studies have suggested that MTA2 gene is related to the progression and metastasis of various types of cancer including: 
    - Breast cancer
    - Ovarian cancer
    - Lung cancer
    - Gastric cancer
    - Colorectal cancer
    - Pancreatic cancer

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Since MTA2 is involved in cancer progression, studies are being done to develop drugs that target MTA2 to treat cancer and improve prognosis.

## Drug Response
- Studies have suggested that targeting MTA2 using drugs like histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACis) can improve the response to chemotherapy and reduce the metastasis of cancer cells.

## Sources
- Zhang, Q., Zhang, Y., Wang, C. et al. Inhibition of MTA2 by epigallocatechin-3-gallate sensitizes thyroid cancer cells to doxorubicin. Cancer Cell Int 19, 35 (2019). [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12935-019-0746-4)
- Cheng, Z., Gong, Y., Ma, Y., Lu, K., & Lu, X. (2019). Targeting histone deacetylases in cancer therapy: A review of the drugs currently available for epigenetic modulation in malignancies. British Journal of Pharmacology, 176(7), 988–1003. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1111/bph.14680)
- National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI). MTA2 metastasis associated 1 family member 2 [Homo sapiens (human)]. Gene ID: 9214. [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/9214.)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**