---
title: "MIR502"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene MIR502"
tags: ['MIR502', 'microRNA', 'geneExpression', 'cancer', 'cardiovascularDiseases', 'treatment', 'prognosis', 'drugResponse']
---

# Information about gene MIR502

## Genetic Position
MIR502 is a microRNA gene, located on the chromosome Xq28.

## Pathology
MIR502 has been implicated in various diseases, including cancer and cardiovascular diseases. It has been shown to play a role in tumor growth, apoptosis, metastasis, and drug resistance.

## Function
MIR502 is a microRNA that regulates gene expression by binding to messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules and blocking their translation into protein. It has been reported to target several genes involved in cancer, including PTEN, CDK2, and TGFBR2.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 17845
- NCBI Entrez: 406996
- Ensembl: ENSG00000213785
- OMIM: -
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: -

Aliases:
- MIRN502
- hsa-mir-502

## AA Mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
There is no known protein coding sequence for MIR502 as it is a microRNA. Mutations in the MIR502 gene can result in changes in the mature microRNA sequence, which can affect its regulation of target genes. There are currently no known DBSNP IDs for these mutations.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known somatic SNVs or InDels in the MIR502 gene with associated DBSNP IDs.

## Related Disease
MIR502 has been implicated in several diseases, including cancer and cardiovascular diseases.

## Treatment and Prognosis
The use of MIR502 inhibitors or replacement therapy has been explored as a potential treatment for cancer. However, more research is needed to determine its therapeutic potential. Prognosis for diseases associated with MIR502 varies depending on the specific disease and the stage at which it is diagnosed.

## Drug response
There are currently no known drugs that target specifically MIR502.

## Related Papers
- Subject: MIR502 and cancer
  - Author: Gao P, Zhou L, Wang L, Hao Y, Wang M, Sun Y, Qian Y, Du L and Zhang X
  - DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S120376
  
- Subject: MIR502 and cardiovascular diseases
  - Author: Wang L, Tang HL, Chen Y, Jiang P, Chang CC and Wang J
  - DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00807

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**