---
title: "SYNE2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# **Information about Gene SYNE2**"
tags: ['SYNE2', 'Nesprin2', 'MuscularDystrophy', 'Cancer', 'EmeryDreifussMuscularDystrophy', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticMutations']
---

# **Information about Gene SYNE2**

## **Genetic Position**
SYNE2 (Synaptic Nuclear Envelope Protein 2) gene is located on chromosome 14q23.3. It spans 364,420 bases and contains 82 exons.

## **Pathology and Function**
The SYNE2 gene encodes for a giant protein called Nesprin-2 which is involved in connecting the nuclear envelope and cytoskeleton and maintaining nuclear positioning within cells. Nesprin-2 also plays a role in vesicle transport, cell migration, and adhesion. Mutations in this gene have been associated with several diseases including muscular dystrophy, cancer, and Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy. 

## **External IDs and Aliases**
- Gene Symbol: SYNE2
- HGNC ID: 11313
- Entrez Gene ID: 23224
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000101019
- OMIM ID: 608441
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NF91
- Aliases: C6orf98, KIAA0796, MGC117163, MGC117164, MGC117165, MGC138393, MGC138394, MGC138395, MGC142253, MGC142255, MGC142257, MGC71050, MYNE2, nesprin-2, NUANCE, PRO0459, SYNE-2


## **AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID**
The SYNE2 gene has been reported to have several missense, nonsense, and splice site mutations associated with various diseases. Some of the mutations with their respective dbSNP ID and mutation type are listed below:

|Mutation Type   | Amino acid change | dbSNP ID         | Disease association                           |
|----------------|------------------|-----------------|-----------------------------------------------|
|Missense        |p.Arg2466Gln      |rs759039979      |autosomal recessive arthrogryposis-like syndrome|
|Nonsense        |p.Tyr2708*        |rs201730533      |autosomal recessive lower motor neuron disease  |
|Splice-site     |-                 |rs786202049      |Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy               |
|Missense        |p.Gly3330Val      |rs553233487      |breast cancer                                  |
|Missense        |p.Asp4165Gly      |rs141885014      |dilated cardiomyopathy                        |

## **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID**
Several somatic variations in the SYNE2 gene have been reported with their respective dbSNP ID. Some of these are:

|Variant Type| dbSNP ID| Disease association|
|------------|---------|--------------------|
| SNV        |rs145964955 | Breast Cancer      |
| InDel      |rs367543152 | Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|
| SNV        |rs201395653 | Primary Myopathy   |

## **Related Diseases**
Mutations in SYNE2 gene have been linked to several diseases including:
- Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy
- Autosomal recessive arthrogryposis-like syndrome
- Cardiovascular disease
- Breast cancer.

## **Treatment and Prognosis**
Currently, there are no specific treatments available for diseases caused by SYNE2 mutations. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive and may include physical therapy and surgery. The prognosis depends on the specific disease and the severity of the mutation.

## **Drug response**
There are currently no drugs available that directly target SYNE2 gene mutations.

## **Related Papers**
- Manifold Roles of Nesprins In Health and Disease. *Front Cell Dev Biol.* 2020. DOI: [10.3389/fcell.2020.00134]([Click](https://doi.org/10.3389/fcell.2020.00134)
- Autosomal Recessive Arthrogryposis-Like Syndrome Due to a Novel Variant in SYNE2 Gene. *Ann Indian Acad Neurol.* 2020. DOI: [10.4103/aian.AIAN_614_19]([Click](https://doi.org/10.4103/aian.AIAN_614_19)
- Germline SYNE1 Mutations That Impair Nuclear Lamina-Interacting Motifs Enhance Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis. *J Am Soc Nephrol.* 2017. DOI: [10.1681/ASN.2016060661]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1681/ASN.2016060661)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**