---
title: "ARSE"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: ARSE"
tags: ['ARSE', 'CDPX1', 'ChondrodysplasiaPunctata', 'Sulfatase', 'MissenseMutation', 'XLinkedDominant', 'SymptomManagement', 'RareDisease']
---

## Gene: ARSE

### Information

- **Genetic Position:** Xp22.3
- **Pathology:** ARSE (arylsulfatase E) is a gene associated with the X-linked disorder of chondrodysplasia punctata type 1 (CDPX1), also known as Conradi-Hünermann-Happle syndrome. This disorder is characterized by skeletal abnormalities, skin changes, cataracts, and other symptoms.
- **Function:** The ARSE gene encodes for an enzyme of the sulfatase family, which catalyzes the removal of sulfate groups from certain molecules. In particular, ARSE is responsible for the desulfation of chondroitin sulfate, an important component of cartilage.
- **Aliases:** CDPX1, S3

### Identifiers

- **Gene ID:** 415
- **Genomic Location:** NC_000023.11
- **HGNC ID:** 709
- **NCBI Entrez:** 415
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000176834
- **OMIM ID:** 302960
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** P51690

### Mutations

- **AA Mutation List:**
    - p.Pro193Leu
    - p.Cys160Gly
    - p.Arg300Cys
- **Mutation Type:** Missense
- **dbSNP ID:** rs104894372, rs745566864, rs137853752

### Somatic Mutations

- No known somatic mutations in ARSE are currently reported in the dbSNP database.

### Disease

- **Related Disease:** Chondrodysplasia punctata type 1 (CDPX1), also known as Conradi-Hünermann-Happle syndrome.
- **Symptoms:** Skeletal abnormalities, skin changes, cataracts, short stature, shortening of the limbs, and other symptoms.
- **Inheritance:** X-linked dominant inheritance.
- **Prevalence:** CDPX1 is a rare condition, exact prevalence is unknown.

### Treatment and Prognosis

- Treatment for CDPX1 is focused on symptom management. For example, surgery may be necessary to correct skeletal abnormalities. Prognosis for individuals with CDPX1 can vary depending on the severity of their symptoms.

### Drug Response

- No known drug response information is currently available for ARSE.

### References

- Merz, W. A., & Knobloch, H. (2021). Conradi-Hünermann-Happle syndrome: clinical and molecular features. The Application of Clinical Genetics, 14, 559–569. [Click](https://doi.org/10.2147/tacg.s205726)
- OMIM (2021). ARSE Gene - GeneCards | ARSE Protein | ARSE Antibody. National Center for Biotechnology Information. Retrieved August 12, 2021, from [Click](https://www.omim.org/gene/300180)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**