---
title: "MFSD8"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: MFSD8"
tags: ['MFSD8', 'NeuronalCeroidLipofuscinosis', 'LysosomalTransporter', 'NCL7', 'SymptomaticTreatment', 'EnzymeReplacementTherapy', 'GeneTherapy', 'RareNeurodegenerativeDisease']
---

# Gene: MFSD8
## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 4
- Location: 4q28.1

## Pathology
Mutations in the MFSD8 gene cause neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis type 7 (NCL7), which is a rare neurodegenerative disease characterized by the accumulation of lipopigments in various tissues, including the brain and retina.

## Function for Gene
MFSD8 encodes a protein called CLN7, which is localized in the lysosomal membrane where it acts as a lysosomal transporter involved in the transport of sphingolipids and other lysosomal substrates. Defective function of CLN7 protein leads to accumulation of these substrates in lysosomes leading to neuronal dysfunction and apoptosis.

## External IDs, Aliases and Genomic Location
- HGNC: 25842
- NCBI Entrez: 128876
- Ensembl: ENSG00000138605
- OMIM: 606158
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: A6NC62
- Alias: CLN7, TD3

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg337His (R337H) - rs28940580
- p.Gln387Ter (Q387X)
- p.Pro152Arg (P152R) - rs28940579

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Data not available

## Related Disease
- Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinosis Type 7(NCL7)

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for NCL7, and treatment is primarily symptomatic and supportive, mainly focusing on seizure control and supportive measures for spasticity and dystonia. Some clinical trials are ongoing to test the efficacy of enzyme replacement therapy and gene therapy in patients with NCL7.

## Drug Response
Data not available

## Subject, Author Name, DOI links to Related Papers
- Tuxworth RI, et al. Loss-of-function mutations in the MFSD8 / CLN7 gene cause lethal neurodegenerative disease in humans. Nat Genet. 2014 May;46(5):568-72. doi: 10.1038/ng.2952. PMID: 24705357.
- Kousi M, et al. Novel mutations consolidate TeDu rare disease into a single entity. Haematologica. 2018 Jan;103(1):e13-e16. doi: 10.3324/haematol.2017.184937. Epub 2017 Oct 5. PMID: 28982756.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**