---
title: "DAZ3"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene DAZ3"
tags: ['DAZ3', 'RNAbindingprotein', 'germcells', 'infertility', 'geneticcounseling', 'testiculargermcelltumors', 'prematureovarianfailure', 'spermatogenesis']
---

## Gene DAZ3
- **Function for gene:** The DAZ3 gene is a member of the DAZ gene family that encodes RNA-binding proteins. This gene plays a critical role in the development of germ cells in both males and females.
- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
    * Gene ID: 1617
    * Genomic Location: Chromosome Y, q11.223
    * Aliases: DAZL3, DAZF
- **External sites:**
    * HGNC: 2707
    * NCBI Entrez: 1617
    * Ensembl: ENSG00000230133
    * OMIM: 400003
    * UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O14403
- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    * No known pathogenic mutations found in the DAZ3 gene.
- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    * No known somatic SNVs/InDels found in the DAZ3 gene.
- **Related disease:**
    * The mutations in the DAZ gene family are associated with male infertility, testicular germ cell tumors, and premature ovarian failure.
- **Treatment and prognosis:**
    * The treatment for DAZ3 gene mutations depends on the specific condition. Genetic counseling may be recommended for individuals and their families who have DAZ3 gene mutations.
- **Drug response:**
    * No known drug response information available for this gene.
- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**
    * Teng, Y. N., Chang, J. H., Tseng, Y. C., Kuo, P. L., Lee, H. T., & Lin, S. P. (2012). DAZL3, a novel splice variant of deleted in azoospermia-like gene, encodes novel protein isoforms and is involved in late meiotic stages of spermatogenesis. International journal of andrology, 35(6), 793-805. [DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2605.2012.01278.x]

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**