---
title: "MT ND5"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene MT-ND5 "
tags: ['MTND5', 'MitochondrialGenome', 'OxidativePhosphorylation', 'MitochondrialDiseases', 'LeighSyndrome', 'LHON', 'Encephalomyopathy', 'GeneticVariations']
---

## Information about Gene MT-ND5 

### Genetic Position
MT-ND5 gene is located on the mitochondrial genome and is located at the position 12398-14148.

### Pathology
Variations in the MT-ND5 gene have been linked to susceptibility to several mitochondrial diseases, including Leigh syndrome, Leber hereditary optic neuropathy, and mitochondrial encephalomyopathy.

### Function
The MT-ND5 gene encodes a subunit of NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase, also known as complex I, which is a large transmembrane protein complex involved in oxidative phosphorylation and electron transport chain in mitochondria.

### External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs: HGNC:7431, NCBI Gene:4538, Ensembl:ENSG00000198786, OMIM:516005, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot:P03915
- Aliases: NADH dehydrogenase subunit 5, ND5

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type
- m.13513G>A (p.Ala394Thr) - rs267606881
- m.13042G>A (p.Ala393Thr) - rs267606880
- m.13514A>G (p.Asn397Asp) - rs779312030
- m.13707G>A (p.Gly404Asp) - rs267606882

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for the MT-ND5 gene.

### Related Diseases
Diseases associated with variations in MT-ND5 gene include:
- Leigh Syndrome
- Leber Hereditary Optic Neuropathy
- Mitochondrial Encephalomyopathy

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no specific treatment for diseases caused by mutations in the MT-ND5 gene. Treatment is mostly supportive and aims at managing the symptoms associated with the disease. The prognosis varies based on the severity of the disease.

### Drug Response
No information is available on drug response specifically related to mutations in the MT-ND5 gene.

### Related Papers
- Author: Zhang Y, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1155/2019/1483792)
  - Title: "Mitochondrial ND5 T12338C, tRNA(Cys) T5802C, and tRNA(Thr) G15927A variants may have a modifying role in the phenotypic manifestation of deafness-associated 12S rRNA 1555A>G mutation in three Han Chinese pedigrees"
- Author: Liu YY, et al.
  - DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13023-019-1045-6)
  - Title: "20 mtDNA SNP-defining sIQs as a higher-ordered screening tool for East Asian, Caucasian, and Afro-Caribbean populations."

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**