---
title: "ADCY3"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: ADCY3"
tags: ['ADCY3', 'cAMP', 'obesity', 'insulinresistance', 'type2diabetes', 'metabolicdisorders', 'lifestylemodifications', 'geneticbasis']
---

## Gene: ADCY3
   
### Function
ADCY3 encodes ADCY3, an enzyme that converts ATP to cyclic AMP (cAMP), a second messenger molecule that is involved in many physiological processes, including cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. ADCY3 plays a role in the formation of cAMP-responsive calcium channels and is involved in the regulation of adipogenesis and insulin secretion. 

### External IDs
- HGNC ID: 240
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 196883
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000197903
- OMIM ID: 600291
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q9Y2T7

### AA Mutation List
- p.Asp564Gly (rs148445834)
- p.Asn727His (rs397514440)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels
- c.522+1G>T (rs1556655298)
- c.491-4T>G (rs1556655299)

### Related Disease
ADCY3 has been associated with obesity and insulin resistance, as well as metabolic disorders such as type 2 diabetes.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no specific treatment for ADCY3-related diseases. However, lifestyle modifications such as regular exercise and a healthy diet can help manage the symptoms of these conditions. Prognosis depends on the severity of the disease and the individual's response to treatment.

### Drug Response
There is limited information available on drug response in individuals with ADCY3-related diseases.

### Related Papers
- Joost, H.-G., & Schürmann, A. (2012). The genetic basis of obesity-associated type 2 diabetes (T2D) mellitus: A review. Experimental and Clinical Endocrinology & Diabetes, 120(04), 191–196. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1055/s-0032-1312641)
- Watanabe, N., Yonezawa, R., Yoshida, M., Fukai, S., Ikeda, H., & Arai, H. (2019). ADCY3 associates with obesity-related metabolic traits and diseases. Journal of Human Genetics, 64(2), 71–79. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s10038-018-0510-1)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**