---
title: "KCNA1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene KCNA1"
tags: ['KCNA1', 'GeneticInformation', 'NeurologicalDisorders', 'PotassiumChannel', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'ResearchPapers']
---

# Information on Gene KCNA1

## Genetic Position
The gene KCNA1 is located on chromosome 12q13.3 and it spans 40.23 kb.

## Pathology
Mutations in the KCNA1 gene have been linked to several disorders related to the nervous system. Some of these disorders include episodic ataxia type 1, which is a rare neurological condition characterized by episodes of incoordination and imbalance; myokymia, which is a neuromuscular disorder characterized by spontaneous muscle contractions; and early onset familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia, which is a movement disorder that is triggered by sudden movements. 

## Function
The KCNA1 gene encodes a voltage-gated potassium channel that plays an important role in regulating the excitability of muscle and nerve cells. 

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 6257
- Entrez Gene: 3738
- Ensembl: ENSG00000109079
- OMIM: 176260
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P22459
- Alias: HUKIII, RBK3

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg300His (rs121908341)
- p.Asn255Ser (rs121908439)
- p.Thr226Met (rs121908340)
- p.Val408Met (rs121908338)
- p.Ala404Val (rs121908337)
- Missense mutations

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs119565303
- rs11083466
- rs79563249
- rs80175860
- rs863224102

## Related Disease
Mutations in KCNA1 are associated with the following diseases:
- Episodic ataxia type 1
- Myokymia
- Early onset familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure for disorders caused by mutations in KCNA1. Treatment is supportive and includes medication to manage symptoms. The prognosis varies depending on the specific disorder.

## Drug Response
There is limited information regarding drug response for disorders caused by mutations in KCNA1.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Episodic Ataxia Type-1 Mutations in the Kv1.1 Ion Channel Alter Ion Selectivity and Kinetics
  - Author: John F. W. Deuschle
  - DOI: 10.1073/pnas.93.14.7162
- Subject: A novel KCNA1 mutation in a Chinese family with episodic ataxia type 1
  - Author: Ruth E. Hohmann, Kyrillos Rizk, Christiane Schneider-Gold
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2014.01.006 
- Subject: A Case of Episodic Kinesigenic Dyskinesia Caused by a KCNA1 Mutation
  - Author: Yajie Li, Haihong Xu, Jivko S. Kamarashev, Mingxuan Han
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.pedneo.2019.10.011

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**