---
title: "HOXA3"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information"
tags: ['HOXA3', 'HomeoboxGene', 'Cancer', 'Mutation', 'DrugResistance', 'TranscriptionFactor', 'EmbryonicDevelopment', 'Biomarkers']
---

## Gene Information

Gene name: HOXA3  
Location: Chromosome 7q31.3  
Aliases: HOX1, HOX1C, HOX1.3, MGC111078

## Function

HOXA3 is a member of the homeobox gene family and encodes a transcription factor that binds to DNA and regulates gene expression. It plays a critical role in embryonic development, particularly in the formation of the nervous system.

## External IDs

- HGNC: 5148
- NCBI Entrez: 3204
- Ensembl: ENSG00000106573
- OMIM: 601784
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P31267

## Mutations

- AA mutation list: p.Ala55Val, p.Gln136Arg, p.Asp170His
- Mutation type: Missense
- dbSNP ID: rs121912772, rs373239170, rs200466819

## Somatic Variants

- dbSNP ID: rs111921915, rs886042337
- Variant type: SNV
- Related diseases: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia, breast cancer, colorectal cancer

## Related Diseases

Mutations in HOXA3 have been associated with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL), a cancer of the blood and bone marrow, and other cancers such as breast and colorectal cancer.

## Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no specific treatment for mutations in the HOXA3 gene. Treatment for cancers associated with HOXA3 mutations depends on the specific type and stage of the cancer and may include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or a combination of these.

## Drug Response

HOXA3 mutations have been associated with drug resistance, particularly in cancer cells. Further research is needed to identify potential treatment targets and develop targeted therapies for this mutation.

## References

1. Bhatlekar S, Fields JZ, Boman BM. HOX genes and their role in the development of human cancers. J Mol Med (Berl). 2014;92(8):811-823. doi:10.1007/s00109-014-1174-2
2. Liao Y, Li Y, Sang W, et al. Identification of HOXA3 and HOXD8 as potential biomarkers in early-stage lung adenocarcinoma using bioinformatics analysis. Mol Med Rep. 2018;17(1):991-996. doi:10.3892/mmr.2017.7923

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**