---
title: "SCN2B"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene SCN2B"
tags: ['SCN2B', 'GeneticInformation', 'Epilepsy', 'CardiacArrhythmias', 'Schizophrenia', 'SodiumChannel', 'Mutation', 'RegulatorySubunit']
---

# Information about gene SCN2B

## Genetic position
The gene SCN2B is located on the long arm of chromosome 11 (11q23.3) and spans about 13.8 kb of genomic DNA.

## Pathology
Mutations in SCN2B have been associated with various conditions including epilepsy, cardiac arrhythmias, and schizophrenia.

## Function
The SCN2B gene encodes for the sodium channel subunit beta-2 which is a regulatory subunit of voltage-gated sodium channels. This subunit modulates the kinetics and voltage-dependence of sodium ion permeability of the channel based on the complete SCN1-4 genes.

## External IDs, aliases, and genomic location
- HGNC: 10548
- NCBI Entrez: 6329
- Ensembl: ENSG00000129471
- OMIM: 601471
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P59536

Aliases: ATFB13, HBA, SCN2B1

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
SCN2B gene has several reported missense mutations such as p.R87Q, p.R273L, p.V343L, p.P362L, p.T406M and they are associated with epilepsy and psychiatric disorder. These mutations have corresponding dbSNP IDs such as rs121918211, rs121918210, rs121918214, rs121918212, rs121918213 respectively.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic mutations in the SCN2B gene.

## Related disease
Mutations or alterations in the SCN2B gene have been associated with various disorders including:
- Epilepsy
- Brugada syndrome, a rare heart rhythm disorder
- Schizophrenia

## Treatment and prognosis
The treatment and prognosis for SCN2B-associated disorders vary depending on the specific condition and the severity of the mutations or alterations.

## Drug response
There are currently no known drugs that specifically target SCN2B.

## Related papers and DOI links
- Subject: SCN2B gene variants in patients with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder
  - Author: Quednow BB, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1038/sj.mp.4001703
- Subject: Genes associated with epilepsy: a review on genetic variations with risk of epilepsy
  - Author: Gavazzo P, et al.
  - DOI: 10.3390/ijms21165894
- Subject: Regulatory subunits of voltage-gated sodium channels and potential targets for modulation of cardiac excitability and arrhythmias
  - Author: Maier SKG, et al.
  - DOI: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2020.107756

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**