---
title: "BANK1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: BANK1"
tags: ['BANK1', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'BCellActivation', 'SLE', 'RA', 'SjögrenSyndrome', 'Hydroxychloroquine', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene: BANK1

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 4
- Location: 4q24
- Strand: Plus
- Genomic Coordinates: 99,942,575 - 100,026,966 bp 

## Pathology and Function
BANK1 gene is associated with autoimmune diseases such as Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE), Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA), and Sjögren’s syndrome. The gene encodes a B-cell scaffold protein that is involved in B-cell activation and differentiation.
                                         
## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 20108
- Ensembl: ENSG00000171094
- NCBI Entrez: 55024
- OMIM: 605361
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NDB2
- Alias: NCCRP-1, FLJ90606

## AA Mutation List with Mutation Type and dbSNP ID
| Amino Acid Change | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
|------------------|---------------|----------|
| R61H           | missense mutation   | rs10516487  |
| R61G           | missense mutation   | rs10516488   |
| T263I           | missense mutation   | rs3733197   |
| T273N         | missense mutation   | rs3733198 |
| S417N         | missense mutation  | rs3733199 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
| Gene Name | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID | Cancer Type |
|-----------|---------------|----------|---------------|
| BANK1       | Missense Mutation | rs757280374  | Serous Ovarian Cancer |


## Related Diseases
- Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE)
- Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
- Sjögren’s syndrome

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is no known cure for autoimmune diseases associated with BANK1 gene. The treatment is usually focused on symptomatic relief and suppressing the immune system. The prognosis varies depending on the severity of the disease.

## Drug Response
Studies suggest that BANK1 gene expression may predict the response to the antirheumatic drug hydroxychloroquine in patients with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus.

## Related Papers

1. Subject: BANK1 Polymorphisms Are Associated with Disease and Anti-SSA/Ro-Positive Status in Patients with Primary Sjögren's Syndrome
Author: Li Wu, et al.
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0115406

2. Subject: BANK1 controls CpG-dependent IFN-α production in plasmacytoid dendritic cell subsets
Author: Renaud Mevel, et al.
DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.2001682

3. Subject: BANK1 Regulates IgG Production in a Lupus Model by Controlling TLR7-Dependent STAT1 Activation
Author: Naoki Matsuoka, et al.
DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1301888

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**