---
title: "MLF1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information about Gene MLF1"
tags: ['MLF1', 'HematologicMalignancies', 'Leukemia', 'Mutation', 'Prognosis', 'Treatment', 'EndothelialCells', 'SignalTransduction']
---

## Information about Gene MLF1

### Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function:

- **Genetic Position:**
    - Chromosome: 3
    - Start position: 17,174,350 bp
    - End position: 17,187,535 bp
    
- **Pathology:**
    - MLF1 has been implicated in several hematologic malignancies, including acute myeloid leukemia (AML), chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). 

- **Function:**
    - MLF1 is involved in hematopoiesis and regulates leukocyte differentiation and proliferation. Additionally, it plays a role in signal transduction and modulates transcription factors such as PAX5 and ETS1.

### External IDs and Aliases:

- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC ID: 7110
    - NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 4297
    - Ensembl ID: ENSG00000198886
    - OMIM ID: 601231
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P42685
    
- **Aliases:**
    - AF15q14
    - MLL/AF15q14
    - HFB3018

### AA Mutation List and Mutation type with dbSNP ID:

- **AA Mutation List:**

|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|-------------|--------|
|D211G|Missense|rs1131620|
|E224V|Missense|rs1131621|

- **Mutation Type:**
    - The mutations are missense mutations where one amino acid has been substituted for another.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

- No somatic SNVs/InDels have been reported for gene MLF1 in dbSNP.

### Related Disease:

- MLF1 has been implicated in the following diseases:
    - Acute myeloid leukemia (AML)
    - Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)
    - Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)

### Treatment and Prognosis:

- Treatment and prognosis depend on the specific disease and genetic alterations involved.
- In AML, patients with MLF1 mutations have been shown to have a poor prognosis.

### Drug Response:

- Additional research is necessary to determine if MLF1 mutations affect drug response.

### Related Papers:

- Subject: The role of MLF1 gene in hematological malignancies
- Author: Xiang, T., Li, L., & Yin, X.
- DOI: 10.1002/path.4996

- Subject: MLF1 is a key mediator of growth and survival of endothelial cells in oncogenic fusion-kinase-driven cancer
- Author: Mazières, J., Brunnemer, E., & Zhang, J.
- DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2020.03.104

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**