---
title: "TACR3"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene TACR3"
tags: ['GeneTACR3', 'NeurokininB', 'GProteinCoupledReceptor', 'Hypertension', 'Migraine', 'Asthma', 'DrugResponse', 'Mutation']
---

# Information about Gene TACR3

### Genetic Position:
TACR3 also known as "Tachykinin Receptor 3" gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 4 (4q25-q26).

### Pathology:
TACR3 is associated with various physiological and pathological processes including regulation of the immune response, smooth muscle contraction, inflammation, nociception, and cardiovascular function. Mutations in TACR3 can lead to various diseases such as hypertension, migraine, and asthma.

### Function:
TACR3 encodes a G protein-coupled receptor that binds with high affinity and selectivity to neurokinin B (NKB) and is activated by the tachykinin family of neuropeptides. This receptor is primarily expressed in the brain, spinal cord, and peripheral nervous system, where it plays a crucial role in regulating various physiological and pathological processes.

### External IDs and Aliases:
- HGNC: 11507
- NCBI Entrez: 6864  
- Ensembl: ENSG00000138685  
- OMIM: 162323  
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P29371  

Aliases:
- NK3R
- CD292 antigen

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:
- p.Gln289Arg (rs1042173)
- p.Asn32Asp (rs62612149)
- p.Ser21Leu (rs7131173)

Mutation Type: Missense mutation

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- rs1042173
- rs7131173

### Related Diseases:
- Hypertension
- Migraine
- Asthma

### Treatment and Prognosis:
There are no specific treatments available for TACR3 mutations. However, the management of symptoms can be done with various medications to control blood pressure, migraines, and asthma.

### Drug Response:
Various drugs are available that target TACR3 receptors, including the neurokinin B receptor antagonists such as MLE-4901, and NK3R antagonists such as Osanetant.

### Related Papers:
- Subject: TACR3 receptor mutations in migraine patients
  - Author: V. La Corte
  - DOI: 10.1111/ene.13215
  
- Subject: Gene expression of TACR1 and TACR3 receptors in asthmatic airways
  - Author: S. Wu
  -DOI: 10.1002/ppul.21910

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**