---
title: "CYP19A1"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene CYP19A1"
tags: ['CYP19A1', 'Aromatase', 'Estrogen', 'AromataseExcessSyndrome', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'Biosynthesis']
---

# Gene CYP19A1
## Genetic Position, Pathology, and Function
**Genetic Position:** CYP19A1 gene (cytochrome P450 family 19 subfamily A member 1) is located on the chromosome 15q21.2. 

**Pathology:** Mutations in the CYP19A1 gene can cause aromatase excess syndrome (AEXS), an autosomal dominant disorder that results in overproduction of estrogen. This can result in premature or excessive breast development, accelerated bone maturation and short stature, and other symptoms related to estrogen excess. 

**Function:** The CYP19A1 gene codes for an enzyme called aromatase, which plays a crucial role in the biosynthesis of estrogens. Aromatase is responsible for the production of estrogen from androgens in various tissues, including the ovaries, placenta, adrenal glands, and adipose tissue. 


## Additional Information
- Function for Gene: Codes for the enzyme aromatase, involved in the biosynthesis of estrogens.
- External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases: 
    - Gene ID: 1588
    - Genomic location: Chromosome 15q21.2
    - Aliases: ARO1, ARO, CYP19, CPV1
- External sites: HGNC, NCBI Entrez, Ensembl, OMIM, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot
    - HGNC: 2623
    - NCBI Entrez: 1588
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000137873
    - OMIM: 107910
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P11511
- AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID: 
    - p.Arg264Cys (rs11575899)
    - p.Thr201Met (rs4646)
    - p.Gln37His (rs7260)
- Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID: None reported
- Related disease: Aromatase excess syndrome (AEXS)
- Treatment and prognosis: Treatment of AEXS may involve medications to block estrogen production or surgery to remove excess breast tissue. With appropriate treatment, the prognosis for individuals with AEXS is generally good 
- Drug Response: Some drugs, such as letrozole and anastrozole, are used to inhibit the activity of aromatase, and may be effective in treating AEXS. However, the response to these drugs may vary among individuals, and careful monitoring is necessary.
- Published papers: 
    - Author: Stratakis CA, Vottero A, Brodie A,  et al. 
    - DOI: 10.1056/nejm200107123450204
    - Title: The aromatase excess syndrome is associated with feminization of both sexes and autosomal dominant transmission of aberrant P450 aromatase gene transcription


**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**