---
title: "GJA5"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene GJA5"
tags: ['GeneGJA5', 'Connexin40', 'AtrialFibrillation', 'SickSinusSyndrome', 'GapJunctions', 'MissenseMutation', 'HeartDisease', 'Prognosis']
---

# Gene GJA5

## Information

* **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 1: 219,886,088-219,997,189
* **Pathology:** Connexin 40 is a protein that is encoded by the GJA5 (gap junction protein alpha 5) gene. It is a member of the connexin family of proteins, which are involved in the formation of gap junctions - channels that allow direct communication and coordination between adjacent cells. Mutations in GJA5 have been associated with various heart-related diseases, including atrial fibrillation and sick sinus syndrome.
* **Function of Gene:** The protein encoded by GJA5 forms intercellular channels that allow for direct communication between adjacent cells. In the heart, the protein is particularly important for the coordinated electrical activity that drives the heartbeat.

## Gene Details
* **External IDs:** HGNC: 4269, NCBI Entrez: 2703, Ensembl: ENSG00000116747, OMIM: 121013, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P36382
* **Aliases:** Connexin 40, Cx40 

## Mutation and Variations

* **AA Mutation List:** A highly-polymorphic region of GJA5 is known to be associated with atrial fibrillation. The most common variant is a non-synonymous single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) that results in an arginine-to-histidine substitution at position 219 (R219H). Other rare variants have also been identified.
* **Mutation Type:** Missense Mutation
* **dbSNP ID:** rs10465885 (R219H)
* **Somatic SNVs/InDels:** No somatic variations have been identified in GJA5 in the COSMIC database.
* **dbSNP ID:** NA

## Related Diseases

* **Related Diseases:** Atrial fibrillation, sick sinus syndrome
* **Treatment and Prognosis:** Treatment for atrial fibrillation and sick sinus syndrome may include medications to regulate the heartbeat, electrical cardioversion to restore normal rhythm, or implantation of a pacemaker. Prognosis can vary depending on the severity of the condition.
* **Drug Response:** NA
* **Subject, Author, and DOI links to related papers:** 
1. Subject: Connexins and Atrial Fibrillation
Author: Felipe Bisbal, Stanley Nattel
DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.yjmcc.2012.06.006)
2. Subject: Connexin Mutations in Cardiac Disease
Author: Catherine E. Sanger, Steven M. Sidorov, Peter J. Boink, Barbara L. J. Huisman, Paul L. M. Ruben, Andries Doevendans, Toon A. B. van Veen
DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.3390/cells7100153)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**