---
title: "PPP1R3A"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene PPP1R3A"
tags: ['PPP1R3A', 'GlycogenStorageDisease', 'Metabolism', 'Mutation', 'SomaticSNVs', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'SIRT1Activators']
---

# Information about gene PPP1R3A

## Genetic position, pathology, and function

- ***Genetic position:*** PPP1R3A (protein phosphatase 1 regulatory subunit 3A) is located on the chromosome 7q31.3.
- ***Pathology:*** PPP1R3A is involved in several diseases like glycogen storage disease (GSD) type 1a, obesity, and diabetes.
- ***Function:*** PPP1R3A encodes a regulatory subunit of the protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) that regulates glycogen synthesis in the liver. This protein also plays a significant role in the regulation of glucose and lipid metabolism.

## Gene information

- ***Function for gene:*** PPP1R3A plays an essential role in regulating glycogen synthesis, glucose & lipid metabolism.
- ***External IDs:***
    - Gene ID: 5502
    - Genomic location: Chr7: 122,438,277-122,502,118
    - Aliases: PTG, G L, G L gene.
- ***External sites:***
    - HGNC: 9325
    - NCBI Entrez: 5502
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000087085
    - OMIM: 600917
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P0DJD8.

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID

The following are the mutation types of PPP1R3A with the dbSNP ID:

| Amino Acid Mutation | Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| -------------------|---------------|----------|
| R50H  | Missense | rs5030867 |
| A149T | Missense | rs1801214 |
| V174M | Missense | rs1801216 |
| A232V | Missense | rs1801217 |

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID

There are several somatic SNVs/InDels for PPP1R3A present in dbSNP. Listed below are some of them:

| Mutation Type | dbSNP ID |
| -------------- | --------- |
| SNV | rs539102054 |
| SNV | rs759388200 |
| InDel | rs754011038 |
| InDel | rs566928245 |

## Related disease

PPP1R3A is associated with the below-mentioned disease:

- Glycogen storage disease type 1a (GSD1a): It is an inherited metabolic disorder caused by the deficiency of glucose-6-phosphatase in the liver, kidney, and intestine.

## Treatment and prognosis

GSD1a is treated primarily with a diet low in carbohydrates, continuous glucose monitoring, and SIRT1 activators. Hepatic tumors are treated by surgical resection. The prognosis of GSD1a is dependent on the timing of the diagnosis and the implementation of an effective management plan.

## Drug response

There are no known drugs targeted specifically towards PPP1R3A. However, several drugs like Rapamycin and resveratrol are SIRT1 activators that have shown therapeutic potential in treating GSD1a.

## Papers

1. Title: Sirtuin-activating compounds (STAC) directly bind sirtuin 1 and stimulate sirtuin 1-mediated deacetylation of p53.
   - Author: Kim JE, Chen J, Lou Z.
   - DOI:  10.1074/jbc.M110.156036
2. Title: Glycogen storage disease type 1: diagnosis, management, clinical course and outcome.
   - Author: Kishnani PS, Austin SL, Abdenur JE, Arn P, Bali DS, Boney A, Chung WK, Dagli AI, Dale D, Koeberl D, Somers MJ, Wechsler SB, Weinstein DA, Wolfsdorf JI.
   - DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-6-1.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**