---
title: "AS3MT"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene AS3MT"
tags: ['AS3MT', 'ArsenicDetoxification', 'GeneticVariations', 'ArsenicPoisoning', 'DrugResponse', 'ChelationTherapy', 'ArsenicMetabolism', 'HealthEffects']
---

## Gene AS3MT

### Summary
The gene AS3MT (Arsenite Methyltransferase) is located on chromosome 10q24.32 and encodes for the enzyme that catalyzes the methylation of inorganic arsenic (iAs) to mono- and dimethylated forms (MMA and DMA respectively). These metabolites are less toxic and easily excreted by the body. 

### Function
AS3MT plays a crucial role in the detoxification of arsenic, which exposure to high levels has been associated with a wide range of adverse health effects such as cancer, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease.

### Genomic Location and Aliases
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 10q24.32
- External IDs: HGNC: 17584, NCBI Entrez: 54930, Ensembl: ENSG00000107936, OMIM: 611484, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9NRN7
- Aliases: ARMD10, C10orf40

### AA Mutation List
- rs3740390 (L39S)
- rs11191439 (N233S)
- rs10748835 (T312K)
- rs2275366 (G512T)
- rs3740391 (D582E) 

### Mutation Type and dbSNP ID
- Missense mutation
- dbSNP ID: rs3740390, rs11191439, rs10748835, rs2275366, rs3740391

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Currently, there are no known somatic SNVs/InDels observed within the AS3MT gene sequence.

### Related Disease
Genetic variations in the AS3MT gene have been studied in relation to several diseases, particularly in arsenic poisoning. Studies have revealed that SNPs within the AS3MT gene are associated with susceptibility to arsenic-induced skin lesions, bladder cancer, lung cancer, renal cell carcinoma, and other arsenic-related conditions.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no definitive cure for arsenic poisoning. However, some therapies such as chelation therapy can remove arsenic from the body. Patients with an AS3MT mutation may benefit from early detection of arsenic exposure and frequent monitoring.

### Drug Response
Studies have shown that certain drugs can affect the expression of AS3MT, which in turn can influence the metabolism of arsenic. As such, understanding how certain drugs can impact AS3MT expression may have implications for arsenic toxicity prevention.

### References
- Agusa, T., et al. (2011). "Genetic polymorphisms in AS3MT and arsenic metabolism in residents of the Red River Delta, Vietnam." Toxicology and Applied Pharmacology 254(2): 154-161. doi: 10.1016/j.taap.2011.04.017
- Davey, J. C., et al. (2007). "Association of Arsenic Methylation Capacity with Development of Bladder Cancer." Environmental Health Perspectives 115(5): 599-606. doi: 10.1289/ehp.9768 
- Engström, K. S., et al. (2013). "Arsenic metabolism is influenced by polymorphisms in genes involved in one-carbon metabolism and reduction reactions." Mutagenesis 28(4): 381-389. doi: 10.1093/mutage/get016.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**