---
title: "CHN1"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene Information for CHN1"
tags: ['CHN1', 'GeneticPosition', 'Function', 'Disease', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Gene Information for CHN1

## Genetic Position 
- Chromosome: 2
- Start Position: 227,238,786 bp
- End Position: 227,327,544 bp

## Pathology 
- The CHN1 gene has been associated with a variety of diseases, including schizophrenia and autism.

## Function
- CHN1 encodes a protein known as chimerin-1 which is involved in various cellular processes, including signal transduction and cytoskeleton regulation.

## External IDs, Aliases and Genomic location 
- HGNC:1953
- Ensembl: ENSG00000115415 
- NCBI Entrez: 1123 
- OMIM: 603508
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O95429 
- Aliases: ARHGAP2, RHO-GAP 

CHN1 is located on chromosome 2 from base pair 227,238,786 to 227,327,544.

## AA Mutation List with dbSNP ID
- c.1820C>T (p.Arg607Cys) rs147981810
- c.1957G>A (p.Gly653Ser) rs556218385 

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No records found in dbSNP for somatic SNVs/InDels for CHN1.

## Related Disease
CHN1 has been associated with the following diseases:
- Schizophrenia 
- Autism
- Breast Cancer

## Treatment and prognosis
There is no specific treatment for CHN1 mutations. Treatment options for associated diseases may be available. Prognosis depends on the severity of the disease and individual variability.

## Drug Response
No information available for drug response related to CHN1 mutations.

## Related papers
- **Author Name:** Kim JH, Lee HJ, Joo EJ, et al.
  **Title:** Association study of polymorphisms in synaptic GTPase signaling genes and antidepressant treatment response in Korean major depressive patients. 
  **Journal:** Psychiatry Investig. 2013;10(4):353-360.
  **DOI:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.4306/pi.2013.10.4.353)
  
- **Author Name:** Rueckert EH, Barker D, Ruderfer D, et al.
  **Title:** Cis-acting regulation of brain-specific ANK3 gene expression by a genetic variant associated with bipolar disorder. 
  **Journal:** Mol Psychiatry. 2013;18:922-929.
  **DOI:** [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/mp.2012.105)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**