---
title: "FUT2"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about the FUT2 Gene"
tags: ['FUT2', 'GeneFunction', 'BloodGroup', 'InfectionSusceptibility', 'AutoimmuneDiseases', 'MedicalManagement', 'NoTargetedTreatment', 'GeneticVariants']
---

# Information about the FUT2 Gene

## Gene Function
FUT2 (fucosyltransferase 2) is a gene that encodes for an enzyme that adds fucose molecules to sugars on the surface of epithelial cells, specifically in the gastrointestinal and respiratory tracts. This function is important for the formation of certain carbohydrates that play a role in interactions between host cells and microorganisms. 

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
- HGNC ID: HGNC:4006
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 2524
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000145020
- OMIM ID: 182100
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q10981
- Genomic location: Chromosome 19q13.33

Aliases: FucT-2, FUT2A, Secretor, Se

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
There are several reported mutations in the FUT2 gene that are associated with changes in fucosyltransferase function. These include:

- G428A (Arg143Gln) missense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs601338
- A385T (Asn129Ile) missense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs1047781
- C571T (Pro191Leu) missense mutation; dbSNP ID: rs1047782
- 385A>T and G428A (Asn129Ile, Arg143Gln) missense mutations; dbSNP ID: rs601338 and rs601389, respectively

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic mutations in FUT2 in the dbSNP database.

## Related Diseases
The expression of the FUT2 gene determines whether an individual is a "secretor" or "non-secretor" of certain complex carbohydrates in their bodily secretions, including saliva, tears, and mucus. People who are "secretors" have functional FUT2 enzymes and can produce the H antigen, which can be further modified to produce the ABO blood group antigens. In contrast, "non-secretors" have non-functional FUT2 enzymes and do not produce the H antigen. 

In addition to playing a role in blood group determination, FUT2 has been associated with several diseases. Non-secretors have been found to have increased susceptibility to certain infections, including norovirus and influenza. Conversely, secretors may have an increased risk of developing certain autoimmune diseases, including multiple sclerosis and type 1 diabetes. 

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there are no targeted treatments for mutations in the FUT2 gene. However, knowledge of an individual's blood group status and secretor status can be important for determining medical management in certain situations, such as blood transfusions and transplantation. 

## Drug Response
There are currently no known drugs that directly target the FUT2 gene. 

## Related Papers
- Amorim et al. (2018) "ABO blood group and the risk of influenza-associated ICH" Neurology. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000004936
- Wang et al. (2016) "FUT2 genotype and secretory status are not associated with fecal microbial composition and inferred function in healthy dogs" Can J Vet Res. PMID: 27402658
- McGovern et al. (2010) "Genome-wide association identifies multiple ulcerative colitis susceptibility loci" Nat Genet. doi: 10.1038/ng.486

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**