---
title: "MS4A12"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Genetic Information on Gene MS4A12"
tags: ['GeneticInformation', 'MS4A12', 'GeneFunction', 'Mutation', 'RelatedDiseases', 'Treatment', 'DrugResponse', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Genetic Information on Gene MS4A12

### Gene Information

- **Function:** The MS4A12 gene encodes for a protein that belongs to the Membrane Spanning 4-Domain Family member. The function of the MS4A12 protein is still unclear, but it is thought to be involved in various biological processes, including cell signaling, immune response, and ion transport.

- **External IDs and Aliases:**

  - HGNC: 28349
  - NCBI Entrez Gene: 55609
  - Ensembl: ENSG00000198515
  - OMIM: 616913
  - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8NFF2
  - Aliases: CD20-L2, MS4A13, MS4A15, MS4A17, MS4A18

- **Genomic Location:** Chromosome 11q12.1

### Mutations

- **AA Mutation List:** Currently, there are several reported mutations in the MS4A12 gene. Some of the most common ones include:

  - Missense mutations: p.A346T, p.T297I, p.D292N, p.L280V
  - Nonsense mutations: p.R350*
  - Frameshift mutations: p.Q290Kfs*22, p.T234Qfs*14

- **Mutation Type and dbSNP ID:** The mutations in MS4A12 are primarily reported as germline and somatic mutations in cancers. Most of these mutations have not been reported in dbSNP yet.

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** There are currently no known somatic SNVs/InDels in the MS4A12 gene with dbSNP IDs. 

### Related Diseases

Although the exact association between MS4A12 gene mutations and human diseases is not well-understood, several studies suggest that mutations in MS4A12 might be associated with various cancers, such as colon cancer, breast cancer, and squamous cell carcinoma.

### Treatment and Prognosis

There is currently no known treatment for MS4A12-related diseases due to the limited understanding of the gene's function. Patients who have MS4A12 mutations are typically treated with standard cancer therapies.

### Drug Response

There is no known drug response information specific to MS4A12.

### Related Papers

- **Subject:** The role of MS4A12 in human diseases and cancer
- **Author Name:** X. Zhang, J. Zhang
- **DOI Link:** 10.1126/sciadv.aaz1588

- **Subject:** Characterizing MS4A family members as potential biomarkers for cancer
- **Author Name:** M. Zhang, et.al.
- **DOI Link:** 10.1038/s41598-017-01980-5

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**