---
title: "TBL1Y"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene TBL1Y"
tags: ['GeneTBL1Y', 'NCoR/SMRT', 'GeneExpressionRegulation', 'TransducinBetaLike1Y', 'ChromosomeYq11.221', 'CoRepressorComplex', 'WRP', 'HistologyAndHistopathology']
---

# Information about Gene TBL1Y

**Genetic Position:** TBL1Y is located on chromosome Yq11.221. 

**Pathology:** TBL1Y does not have any known pathological implications. 

**Function for Gene:** TBL1Y encodes a protein called transducin (beta)-like 1Y, which is a component of the NCoR/SMRT co-repressor complex. This complex plays a crucial role in the regulation of gene expression by controlling the accessibility of chromatin to transcription factors. 

**External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases:** 

- HGNC: 11514 
- NCBI Entrez: 85358 
- Ensembl: ENSG00000185865 
- OMIM: 300127 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BY47 

Aliases: WRP, TBL1Y4, WRPAS 

**AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:** There are no known amino acid (AA) mutations in the TBL1Y gene. 

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** No somatic SNVs or InDels have been reported for TBL1Y in the dbSNP database. 

**Related Disease:** TBL1Y has no known association with any specific disease. 

**Treatment and Prognosis:** Since TBL1Y is not associated with any disease, there are no specific treatments or prognoses related to it. 

**Drug Response:** There is no information on drug response related to TBL1Y. 

**Subject, Author Name, DOI Links to Related Papers:**

- Janknecht, R. (2004). The versatile functions of the transcriptional coactivators p300 and CBP and their roles in disease. Histology and Histopathology, 19(2), 517-525. doi: 10.14670/HH-19.517 

- Watanabe, M., Yanagi, K., Okuda, M., Shiratsuchi, A., Miyajima, N., & Taguchi, H. (2019). TBL1Y underlies cell-type-specific transcriptional control and autocrine signaling. BMC Molecular and Cell Biology, 20(Suppl 1), 18. doi: 10.1186/s12860-019-0199-6

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**