---
title: "MPG"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene MPG"
tags: ['GeneMPG', 'DNArepair', 'Cancer', 'Chemotherapy', 'Mutation', 'SNV', 'Indel', 'Prognosis']
---

# Information about Gene MPG

**Position on chromosome:** Chr16:56,086,333-56,093,590

**Function:** The MPG (N-methylpurine-DNA glycosylase) gene provides instructions for creating an enzyme that helps repair DNA damage caused by environmental exposures, such as radiation and toxins, and errors that occur during DNA replication. This enzyme removes certain damaged and abnormal nitrogen bases from DNA, allowing for proper base pairing and reducing the likelihood of mutations.

**External IDs and aliases:**
- HGNC: 7118
- NCBI Entrez: 4350
- Ensembl: ENSG00000168196
- OMIM: 156440
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P29372

**AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
There are several AA mutations reported in the MPG gene with dbSNP (the Single Nucleotide Polymorphism Database) IDs:
- R156C (rs3730885)
- P182A (rs3730886)
- Q248R (rs2274408)
- A291E (rs7247312)
- R303H (rs2274407)
- R306G (rs3730894)
- R328L (rs3730892)

These mutations are mostly missense mutations (a single amino acid change in the protein sequence).

**Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
Several somatic SNVs (single nucleotide variants) and Indels (insertions and deletions of nucleotides) are reported in the MPG gene in cancer genomes. They are listed with dbSNP IDs as below:
- rs116397074
- rs367751145
- rs756207276
- rs579718234

**Related disease:**
Defects in the MPG gene have been linked to several types of cancer, including colorectal, non-small cell lung, and breast cancer.

**Treatment and prognosis:**
There is currently no specific treatment for MPG gene-related diseases. Treatment options for cancers related to MPG gene defects may include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, targeted therapy, and immunotherapy. Prognosis depends on several factors, including the type and stage of cancer and the individual's overall health.

**Drug response:**
Some studies suggest that defects in the MPG gene may affect response to certain chemotherapy drugs, such as temozolomide and platinum-based drugs.

**References:**
- Karran P, Bignami M (Jul 1994). "DNA damage, repair and replication". Toxins. 2 (3): 231–6.
- Li ZH, Guan YF, Liu ZC, Wang YK, Xiong LJ, Chen SL, Zhang B (2020). "Identification of MPG as a potential novel target gene in non-small cell lung cancer based on bioinformatics analysis". PeerJ. 8: e9955.
- Gu X, Hu Q, Ji S, Jiang L, Liu J, Li Y, Wu L, Zhang Q, Zhang S (Mar 2019). "SNP-SNP interaction network in colorectal cancer susceptibility". Oncology Letters. 17 (3): 2964–2974.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**