---
title: "GABBR1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: GABBR1"
tags: ['GABBR1', 'GPCR', 'Neurotransmitter', 'Disease', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Baclofen', 'Research']
---

# Gene: GABBR1

## Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 6
- Start Position:  48,884,675 bp
- End Position: 49,183,044 bp

## Function for Gene
The GABBR1 gene encodes the GABA-B receptor 1, a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family (GPCR family). GABA-B receptors are involved in modulating neurotransmitter release, as well as regulating synaptic signaling and plasticity. GABA-B receptors are implicated in the regulation of processes including pain sensation, learning, and memory. 

## External IDs for Gene and Genomic Location, Aliases
- HGNC: 4154
- Entrez Gene: 2550
- Ensembl: ENSG00000118523
- OMIM: 603540
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UBS5
- Aliases: GPRC3A, GB1, GABABR1

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- There are various AA mutations reported in GABBR1. Some of the examples are below:
  - R45P (rs201615133)
  - E106Q (rs200479547)
  - E378K (rs201673659)
  - R452C (rs267607041)
- The above mutations may affect the receptor's structure, resulting in alterations in the key functional domains and ultimately affecting the receptor's activity.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Some of the somatic variants in GABBR1 reported in dbSNP are:
  - rs200386129
  - rs202148708
  - rs371663273

## Related Disease
- GABBR1 has been linked to various diseases, such as:
  - Cognitive Impairment
  - Epilepsy
  - Neuropathic pain
  - Schizophrenia

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no specific treatment for GABBR1 mutations. However, potential treatments for the associated diseases may be helpful.
- Prognosis varies depending on the associated clinical manifestations.

## Drug Response
- Baclofen is a medication that activates GABA-B receptors. It is commonly used to treat spasticity and muscle stiffness, and it was shown to interact with GABBR1.

## Related Papers
- Skerritt et al. (1998) [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0028-3908(97)00132-8)
- Kulikova et al. (2019) [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12035-019-1547-2)
- Nies et al. (2016) [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/humu.23082)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**