---
title: "LEP"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene LEP"
tags: ['Summary', 'of', 'Gene', 'LEP', 'Informati']
---

# Information on Gene LEP

## Gene

- **Name**: LEP (Leptin)
- **Function**: LEP is a protein-coding gene that encodes Leptin, a hormone produced by adipose cells which plays an important role in regulating energy balance and body weight, and also impacts other physiological functions such as bone growth, immune function, and fertility.

## External IDs and Genomic location

- **HGNC**: 6554
- **NCBI Entrez**: 3952
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000174697
- **OMIM**: 164160
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: P41159
- **Aliases**: OB, OBS, LEPD, leptin (murine obesity), obese

- **Genomic location**: Chromosome 7q31.3

## Mutations

- **AA Mutation List:** A number of mutations have been described in the Leptin gene (LEP) that either disrupt the protein (missense mutations) or cause truncations (nonsense mutations or frame-shift mutations).
    - R105W (p.Arg105Trp): rs7799039
    - W116G (p.Trp116Gly): rs61745357
    - T103M (p.Thr103Met): rs1137101

- **Mutation Type with dbSNP ID:** Missense mutations with dbSNP IDs: rs7799039, rs61745357, rs1137101.

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** None reported

## Related Disease

- **Disease**: obesity and related disorders caused by defects in Leptin or Leptin receptor pathways.
    - LEP deficiency is a rare genetic condition associated with severe obesity in early childhood, in which individuals have very low levels of circulating Leptin.

## Treatment and Prognosis

- **Treatment**: Treatment of LEP deficiency involves Leptin replacement therapy via injections of recombinant human Leptin.

- **Prognosis**: The prognosis for individuals with LEP deficiency is generally good with appropriate Leptin therapy.

## Drug Response

- There is limited information available on drug responses related to LEP.

## Related Papers

- **Subject**: Leptin Deficiency
- **Author name**: Farooqi IS, O'Rahilly S.
- **DOI Links**: 
    1. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/s0140-6736(06)69414-2)
    2. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/384425a0)


1. #GeneLEP
2. #Leptin
3. #Obesity
4. #LEPDeficiency
5. #Mutation
6. #LeptinReplacementTherapy
7. #EnergyBalance
8. #PhysiologicalFunctions**
**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**