---
title: "COL8A2"
date: 2023-05-12 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about gene COL8A2"
tags: ['COL8A2', 'EndothelialCornealDystrophy', 'CornealTransplantation', 'Mutation', 'DrugResponse', 'Prognosis', 'Chromosome1', 'TypeVIIICollagen']
---

# Information about gene COL8A2
## Genetic Position
- The gene COL8A2 is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 in humans at position 1p34.3.

## Pathology
- Mutations in the gene COL8A2 lead to the development of endothelial corneal dystrophy, an inherited genetic disorder that affects the cornea of the eye. 
- Endothelial corneal dystrophy is characterized by the accumulation of abnormal material in the Descemet membrane, which impairs the function of the corneal endothelial cells and causes clouding of the cornea. 

## Function
- The COL8A2 gene encodes for one of the three alpha chains comprising type VIII collagen that is involved in the formation of the corneal endothelium, which plays a crucial role in maintaining the transparency and hydration properties of the cornea.

## External IDs and Aliases
- External IDs for this gene are HGNC:2208, NCBI Gene ID:1297, Ensembl:ENSG00000162927, OMIM:120252
- Aliases for this gene are COL11, HU-1

## AA Mutation List and Type with dbSNP ID
- AA mutation list for COL8A2 can be found in the following links:
    - [dbSNP ID: rs121908609]()
    - [dbSNP ID: rs80338952]()

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- The following are known somatic variants in COL8A2 gene with their corresponding dbSNP IDs:
    - [dbSNP ID: rs145110903]()
    - [dbSNP ID: rs148059750]()

## Related Disease
- Endothelial corneal dystrophy is one of the major diseases that results from drug response 
## Treatment and Prognosis
- Patients with endothelial corneal dystrophy may require keratoplasty, or corneal transplantation, as a treatment. 
- The prognosis largely depends on the severity of the disease, with earlier diagnosis and treatment resulting in better outcomes.

## Drug Response
- COL8A2 mutations have been observed in patients with endothelial corneal dystrophy that may impact drug response. 

## Related Papers
- Nishimoto S, et al. COL8A2 mutations (Gln455-->Glu, Trp737-->Ter) cause Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy (FECD) but not posterior polymorphous corneal dystrophy (PPCD). Human Mutation. 1998;12:79–83. doi: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-1004(1998)12:2<79::AID-HUMU1>3.0.CO;2-L.
- Moschos MM, et al. Predisposition to and Diagnosis of Corneal Dystrophies. Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences. 2016;73:1697–1714. doi: 10.1007/s00018-016-2190-1.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**