---
title: "ACSL3"
date: 2023-05-09 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: ACSL3"
tags: ['ACSL3', 'FattyAcidMetabolism', 'MetabolicDisorders', 'Obesity', 'Type2Diabetes', 'NonAlcoholicFattyLiverDisease', 'DrugTarget', 'TherapeuticStrategy']
---

## Gene: ACSL3

### Genetic Position
The ACSL3 gene is located on chromosome 2 at the position q36.1.

### Pathology and Function
The ACSL3 gene encodes Acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 3, which catalyzes the conversion of long-chain fatty acids into acyl-CoA esters and plays a crucial role in fatty acid metabolism. ACSL3 is expressed in various tissues including heart, skeletal muscle, and adipose tissue. The overexpression and downregulation of ACSL3 have been associated with various metabolic disorders, including obesity, type 2 diabetes, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 12964
- NCBI Entrez ID: 2180
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000115239
- OMIM ID: 605152
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P42765
- Aliases: FACL3, FACL4

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Arg213Gln (rs1050631)
- p.Arg474Cys (rs2296067)
- p.Pro485Leu (rs61735916)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No somatic SNVs or InDels have been reported for ACSL3.

### Related Disease
- Obesity
- Type 2 diabetes
- Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease

### Treatment and Prognosis
The overexpression of ACSL3 in adipose tissue has been shown to be a potential therapeutic target for obesity and its related metabolic disorders. Modulating the expression of ACSL3 through lifestyle interventions, such as exercise and dietary changes, or pharmacological interventions may offer a promising therapeutic strategy for these conditions.

### Drug Response
ACSL3 has been identified as a potential drug target for metabolic disorders, and studies have shown the efficacy of ACSL3 inhibitors in treating obesity and related disorders in animal models. Pharmaceutical companies are developing ACSL3 inhibitors for clinical use, but more research is needed to assess their safety and efficacy in humans.

### Related Papers
- Subject: ACSL3 inhibition by Triacsin C reduces intracellular lipid accumulation and hepatic steatosis in vitro and in vivo
  - Author: Matsuda S, Kobayashi M, Kitagishi Y
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biochem.2018.09.010)

- Subject: Role of ACSL3 and adipocyte metabolism in breast cancer
  - Author: Nomura DK, Long JZ, Niessen S, Hoover HS, Ng SW, Cravatt BF
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature11322)

- Subject: ACSL3: a new target for metabolic disorders
  - Author: Lin H, Huang F, Qiu L
  - DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pharmthera.2019.06.001)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**