---
title: "CHD1L"
date: 2023-05-11 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene CHD1L Information"
tags: ['CHD1L', 'ChromatinRemodeler', 'Cancer', 'GeneExpression', 'DNARepair', 'Biomarkers', 'TherapeuticTargets', 'Epigenetics']
---

## Gene CHD1L Information

- **Genetic Position:** The CHD1L gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 at position 21.1 (1q21.1). 

- **Pathology:** Overexpression of CHD1L has been observed in various cancers such as breast, prostate, ovarian, and lung cancer. 

- **Function for gene:** CHD1L is a chromatin remodeler that plays a role in regulating gene expression and DNA repair. 

- **External IDs:**
    - HGNC: 19011
    - NCBI Entrez: 55629
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000172322
    - OMIM: 614344
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9HCK8
    
- **Aliases:** AHD2, C1orf9, Chd1L-FORM1, DKFZp686P13200, KIAA1427, RGD1561787

- **AA Mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:** Unfortunately, there is no information available on any specific amino acid (AA) mutations associated with the CHD1L gene.

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:** There are various somatic SNVs/InDels present in the CHD1L gene in various cancers, which can be observed through the dbSNP database. 

- **Related Disease:** Overexpression of CHD1L has been associated with various cancers, including breast, prostate, ovarian, and lung cancer.

- **Treatment and prognosis:** There is no specific treatment or prognosis information available for CHD1L overexpression. Treatment options for cancer and its prognosis depend on the type and stage of the cancer.

- **Drug response:** There is no specific information on drug response related to CHD1L overexpression. 

- **Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers:**

1. Li et al. (2018). Epigenetic Regulation of CHD1L in Bladder Cancer and Its Role as Potential Diagnostic and Therapeutic Target. [Click](https://doi.org/10.11648/j.jctr.20180201.12)

2. Huang & Yu (2021). CHD1L in cancer: mechanisms, biomarkers, and therapeutic opportunities. [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00432-021-03775-4)

3. Zhao et al. (2021). CHD1L: A New Perspective in Breast Cancer. [Click](https://doi.org/10.3389/fcell.2021.633008)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**