---
title: "FBXL6"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# **Gene FBXL6** "
tags: ['GeneFBXL6', 'ProteinDegradation', 'SCFUbiquitinLigase', 'FBoxFamily', 'LimitedPathology', 'LimitedDiseaseAssociation', 'LimitedDrugResponse', 'LimitedMutationInformation']
---

# **Gene FBXL6** 

## 1. Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 3
- Genomic Position: 3q26.33

## 2. Pathology and Function
- Pathology: There is limited information about the pathology of gene FBXL6 at present.
- Function: The FBXL6 gene codes for a protein that belongs to the F-box family and is involved in the regulation of protein degradation. The FBXL6 protein interacts with SKP1 and can recruit various substrates to the SCF (Skp1-Cul1-F-box protein) ubiquitin ligase complex, leading to their degradation.

## 3. External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 17451
- NCBI Entrez: 55294
- Ensembl: ENSG00000156245
- OMIM: 614979
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UK73
### Aliases
- F-box and leucine-rich repeat protein 6
- F-box/LRR-repeat protein 6
- fb6
- DKFZP434A0823

## 4. AA Mutation List and Mutation Types with dbSNP ID
There are limited reports about AA mutations and dbSNP IDs in gene FBXL6 at present.

## 5. Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are limited reports about somatic SNVs/InDels and dbSNP IDs in gene FBXL6 at present.

## 6. Related Diseases 
- There is limited information about related diseases associated with gene FBXL6 at present.

## 7. Treatment and Prognosis
- There is limited information available about treatment and prognosis associated with gene FBXL6.

## 8. Drug Response
- There is limited information available about drug response associated with gene FBXL6.

## 9. Related Papers
- Cheng Y, Gamper AM, Zhou J, et al. Inhibition of the EGF receptor and the ERK1/2 pathway is required for the antiproliferative effects of the natural compound lycorine in metastatic breast cancer cells. Oncol Rep. 2019;41(5):3069-3082. doi:10.3892/or.2019.7096
- Zhao Y, Zhang H, Hao J, et al. High expression of F-box and leucine-rich repeat protein 6 exacerbates gastric cancer progression by promoting cell cycle dysregulation and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Am J Cancer Res. 2020;10(1):105-123. PMID: 32064150; PMCID: PMC7002349.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**