---
title: "SYT2"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Gene: SYT2 "
tags: ['SYT2', 'synaptotagmin', 'neurologicaldisorders', 'geneticmutations', 'neurotransmitterrelease', 'treatmentmanagement', 'drugdevelopment', 'researchpublications']
---

# Gene: SYT2 

## Genomic location, aliases, and external IDs:
- Chromosome: 1q34.2
- Alias: synaptotagmin 2, SYT2, SVP7, SytII
- External IDs: 
    * HGNC: 11541 
    * NCBI Entrez: 127833 
    * Ensembl: ENSG00000174009 
    * OMIM: 600969 
    * UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6IQQ1 

## Function:
SYT2 encodes for a protein called synaptotagmin-2, which belongs to the synaptotagmin family of membrane-trafficking proteins. The protein is involved in several key cellular activities, mainly calcium-dependent exocytosis of neurotransmitters and hormones from synaptic vesicles and secretory granules in endocrine cells. In neurons, synaptotagmin-2 mediates the release of neurotransmitters from the presynaptic membrane into the synaptic cleft. 

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
- p.Arg398Gln with dbSNP ID: rs3741523
- p.Asp230Gly with dbSNP ID: rs117552062
- p.Asn358Lys with dbSNP ID: rs77977106

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
- c.816G>A with dbSNP ID: rs372825298
- c.142G>T with dbSNP ID: rs28939069

## Related disease:
Polymorphisms in SYT2 gene have been associated with several neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders, including Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder. Several studies have identified genetic mutations in SYT2 among patients with specific neurological conditions such as dystonia and motor neuropathy.

## Treatment and prognosis:
Currently, there are no direct treatments available for genetic mutations in SYT2. Treatment of related neurological diseases usually involves symptomatic management with medication, rehabilitation, and physical therapy.
 
## Drug response:
There are no specific drugs approved to target SYT2, but several pharmaceuticals are currently being investigated to target the synaptotagmin family of proteins involved in synaptic neurotransmitter release.

## Related papers (DOI links):
1. Gao J et al. (2016) "Polymorphisms in Synaptotagmin II Associates with Cognitive Function in the Oldest Old of Chinese Population". Current Alzheimer Research 13(8):902-9. doi: 10.2174/1567205013666160317141039
2. Pinelli M et al. (2016) "A novel SYT2–ITGB1 gene fusion in a pediatric high-grade glioma". Acta Neuropathologica Communications 4:83. doi: 10.1186/s40478-016-0342-6 
3. Kruer MC et al. (2013) "Neurological syndromes characterized by progressive lower limb spasticity". Annals of Neurology 74(5):643-51. doi: 10.1002/ana.23904

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**