---
title: "PEX6"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information of Gene PEX6"
tags: ['GenePEX6', 'PeroxisomeBiogenesisDisorders', 'PEX6Mutations', 'PBDType4A', 'PeroxisomeFunction', 'SymptomManagement', 'GeneticClassification', 'MutationalSpectrum']
---

# Information of Gene PEX6

### Genetic Position
The gene PEX6 is located on the long arm of chromosome 6 at position 22.31. 

### Pathology
The PEX6 gene is associated with peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs), specifically PBD type 4A. Mutations in this gene can lead to impaired peroxisome function, which can lead to a range of symptoms including developmental delays, hearing and vision loss, liver dysfunction, and neurological problems.

### Function
The PEX6 gene encodes a protein involved in peroxisome biogenesis and maintenance. Specifically, it is involved in regulating the formation of peroxisome membrane proteins and the sorting of peroxisomal matrix proteins.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC: 8803
- NCBI Entrez: 5190
- Ensembl: ENSG00000112379
- OMIM: 601498
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q13608
- Aliases: ZWS, PXR1

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Gly843Asp (rs137852619)
- p.Ala284Val (rs267607160)
- p.Arg311Gln (rs137852618)

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs267607161
- rs796052770

### Related Disease
PEX6 mutations are associated with peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs), specifically PBD type 4A.

### Treatment and Prognosis
There is no cure for PBDs caused by PEX6 mutations, and treatment is based on managing symptoms. Prognosis varies depending on the severity of symptoms and the age of onset.

### Drug Response
There is currently no specific drug targeted towards treating PBDs caused by PEX6 mutations.

### Related Papers
- Author: Braverman N, Chen L, Lin P, Obie C, Steel G, Douglas P, Chakraborty PK, Clarke JT, Boneh A, Moser A, Moser H, Valle D
  Title: Mutation analysis of PEX7 in 60 probands with rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata and functional correlations of genotype with phenotype.
  Journal: Hum Mutat
  Year: 2002
  DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/humu.10066) 

- Author: Ebberink MS, Mooijer PA, Gootjes J, Koster J, Wanders RJ, Waterham HR
  Title: Genetic classification and mutational spectrum of more than 600 patients with a Zellweger syndrome spectrum disorder.
  Journal: Hum Mutat
  Year: 2011
  DOI: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1002/humu.21452)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**