---
title: "KCNV2"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: KCNV2"
tags: ['KCNV2', 'VoltageGatedPotassiumChannel', 'ConeRodDystrophy', 'MissenseMutation', 'GeneticAnalysis', 'Retina', 'Blindness', 'LowVisionAids']
---

## Gene: KCNV2

### Function
The KCNV2 gene encodes for a voltage-gated potassium channel subunit K_v8.2, and is involved in the regulation of membrane potential and repolarization of action potentials in neurons. It is mainly expressed in the retina and plays a significant role in maintaining normal vision.

### Genomic Location and External IDs
- Gene ID: 81033
- Genomic Location: Chromosome 9p24.2
- Aliases: K_v8.2, KV8.2

### External Sites
- HGNC: 18782
- NCBI Entrez: 81033
- Ensembl: ENSG00000132897
- OMIM: 607604
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q8TDN1

### Mutation Information
- AA Mutation List: p.Arg302Trp, p.Ile160Val, p.Ile212Thr, p.Gln357Arg
- Mutation Type: Missense
- dbSNP ID: rs267606704, rs80338949, rs80338953, rs119457115

### Related Diseases
- Cone-rod dystrophy 3 (CORD3): Autosomal recessive disorder characterized by progressive loss of cone photoreceptor function leading to blindness.

### Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no known cure for CORD3. Treatment can include low vision aids and assistive devices to help individuals manage daily activities. Prognosis varies depending on the severity and progression of the disease. However, individuals with CORD3 generally experience a gradual loss of vision that ultimately leads to blindness.

### Drug Response
There is no known drug response for CORD3 at this time.

### Related Papers
- Subject: Homozygosity mapping and genetic analysis of autosomal recessive cone-rod dystrophy (CORD3) linked to chromosome 9q21-q31
- Author: Michaelides, Michel et al.
- DOI: 10.1002/humu.20589

- Subject: Neuronal Expression and Fig4 and ItpR3 Accumulation in Unaffected Retinas of CORD3 Patients With KV8.2 Mutation
- Author: Ferrari, Stefano et al.
- DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-17405

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**