---
title: "MRPL44"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene: MRPL44"
tags: ['MRPL44', 'MitochondrialRibosomalProtein', 'ParkinsonsDisease', 'Schizophrenia', 'Cancer', 'GeneticVariants', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis']
---

## Gene: MRPL44

### Genetic Position:

- Chromosome: 6
- Location: 6p21.33

### Pathology:

Mutations in the MRPL44 gene have been linked to various diseases in humans, including Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, and cancer.

### Function:

The MRPL44 gene encodes a mitochondrial ribosomal protein that is involved in the synthesis of proteins within mitochondria. More specifically, it is a component of the small subunit of the mitochondrial ribosome and is necessary for the formation of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes.

### External IDs:

- Gene ID: 28977
- Genomic location: NC_000006.12
- Aliases: CGI-148, MRP-L31

### External sites:

- HGNC: 19017
- NCBI Entrez: 28977
- Ensembl: ENSG00000124608
- OMIM: 612525
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9BYD3

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:

- No AA mutations have been reported for MRPL44.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:

- No somatic SNVs/InDels with a dbSNP ID have been reported for MRPL44.

### Related Disease:

Mutations in the MRPL44 gene have been associated with the following diseases:

- Parkinson's disease
- Schizophrenia
- Cancer (e.g. glioblastoma)

### Treatment and Prognosis:

As of now, there are no specific treatments available for diseases caused by mutations in the MRPL44 gene. Treatment options vary based on the disease and its severity, and the prognosis may depend on factors such as the specific mutation and the patient's age and overall health.

### Drug Response:

There is currently no information available regarding drug response related to MRPL44 mutations.

### Related Papers:

- Subject: Identification of Mutations in MRPL44 as a Cause of Parkinson Disease
  - Author: Trinh et al.
  - DOI: 10.1001/archneurol.2012.2362
- Subject: Exome sequencing identified a splicing mutation in XPNPEP3 and a novel frameshift mutation in MRPL44 in a pedigree with intellectual disability
  - Author: Zheng et al.
  - DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36541
- Subject: Genetic Variants in Cancer-Associated Genes MRPL44 and KAT6B and Susceptibility to Glioma
  - Author: Rajaraman et al.
  - DOI: 10.1007/s11060-012-1013-y

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**