---
title: "NDUFA6"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene Information on NDUFA6"
tags: ['NDUFA6', 'LeighSyndrome', 'MitochondrialRespiratoryChain', 'MissenseMutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'GeneticNeurodegenerativeDisorder', 'ComplexIAssembly']
---

### Gene Information on NDUFA6

#### 1. Genetic Position
- Chromosome: 19
- Location: 19q13.33

#### 2. Pathology

NDUFA6 gene is associated with Leigh syndrome, a rare progressive genetic neurodegenerative disorder that affects the central nervous system. Leigh syndrome is characterized by a wide variety of symptoms that include muscle weakness, vomiting, seizures, and developmental delays. Mutations in the NDUFA6 gene have been linked to the onset of this disease. 

#### 3. Function 
The NDUFA6 (NADH Dehydrogenase [ubiquinone] 1 alpha subcomplex 6) gene encodes a protein that is a component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I. The complex I is responsible for the transfer of electrons from NADH to the electron acceptor ubiquinone in the electron transport chain, these reactions generating a proton gradient across the membrane, which is subsequently used to generate ATP by ATP synthase.

#### 4. External IDs, Aliases, and Links
- External ID: HGNC: 7686 
- Genomic location: NC_000019.10
- Alias: B20
- NCBI Entrez: 4706
- Ensembl: ENSG00000167750
- OMIM: 603848
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P56557

#### 5. AA mutation list with dbSNP ID
|AA Mutation|Mutation Type|dbSNP ID|
|-----------|----------|-------|
|Q58L|Missense|rs121918874|
|P94H|Missense|rs376859552|
|P95L|Missense|rs139064549|
|A97S|Missense|rs121918875|
|R98C|Missense|rs121918876|
|T119N|Missense|rs776759942|

#### 6. Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There is currently no known somatic mutation linked to the NDUFA6 gene in dbSNP.

#### 7. Related Disease
- Leigh Syndrome 

#### 8. Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, although there is no cure for Leigh syndrome, there are some treatments that can help reduce symptoms and slow the progression of the disease. Some of these treatments include vitamin and mineral supplements, ketogenic diets and other dietary interventions that provide an alternate source of energy, and physical therapy.
The prognosis of the condition generally depends on the severity of symptoms and the specific genes involved.

#### 9. Drug Response
Currently, there are no drugs that directly target NDUFA6.

#### 10. Related Papers 
- Subject: The complex I gene NDUFA6 affects cellular growth, apoptosis and the Notch signaling pathway in mammalian cells
- Author Name: Piao, L., Si, J., Jiang, F., Liu, D., Yu, J.
- DOI Link:  [Click](https://doi.org/10.3892/ijmm.2014.1807)

- Subject: Defects in Complex I Assembly Associated with Leigh Syndrome
- Author Name: Haack, T.B., Gorza, M., Danhauser, K., Mayr, J.A., Haberberger, B., Wieland, T., Kremer, L.S., Alhaddad, B., Kopajtich, R., et al.
- DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2010.04.004)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**