---
title: "MIR2861"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene MIR2861"
tags: ['GeneMIR2861', 'MicroRNA', 'Cancer', 'PrognosticMarkers', 'Biomarker', 'CellProliferation', 'Apoptosis', 'SNVs']
---

# Information about Gene MIR2861

## Genetic position and aliases:

- Gene: MIR2861
- Chromosome: 3
- Start position: 22217307 bp
- End position: 22217385 bp
- Strand: -
- Alias: hsa-mir-2861

## Function:

MIR2861 is a microRNA gene that is located on human chromosome 3. MicroRNAs are small non-coding RNA molecules that regulate gene expression by targeting mRNA molecules and leading to their degradation or translational repression. The specific function of MIR2861 is not well understood, but studies suggest that it may be involved in tumor development and progression.

## External IDs:

- HGNC ID: HGNC:49020
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 100420754
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000235297
- OMIM ID: None
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: None

## Mutations:

There are no known amino acid mutations linked to the MIR2861 gene. However, there are several SNVs/InDels present in the gene sequence, some of which are linked to cancer:

- rs375014669: A T to C mutation located at chr3:22217336 that is associated with ovarian cancer and cervical cancer.
- rs374672695: An A to G mutation located at chr3:22217343 that is associated with bladder cancer.

## Related diseases:

MIR2861 has been implicated in several types of cancer, including ovarian cancer, cervical cancer, and bladder cancer.

## Treatment and prognosis:

As MIR2861 is a relatively newly discovered gene, there are currently no treatments or prognoses associated with it.

## Drug response:

There is currently no information available regarding drug responses related to MIR2861.

## Related papers:

- Subject: Identification of microRNA-181a-5p and microRNA-2861 as Potential Prognostic Markers in Ovarian Cancer.
- Author: Xie Y, et al.
- DOI: 10.5582/ijc.v143.408

- Subject: Downregulated plasma miR-2861 as a potential biomarker to diagnose breast cancer.
- Author: Tang Y, et al.
- DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.19595

- Subject: Significance of miR-2861 in predicting prognosis of cervical cancer and its function in cell proliferation and apoptosis.
- Author: Zhang D, et al.
- DOI: 10.3892/etm.2019.7332

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**