---
title: "TMC8"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene TMC8"
tags: ['TMC8', 'EpidermodysplasiaVerruciformis', 'HPV', 'SkinCancer', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Imiquimod', 'DrugResponse']
---

# Information about Gene TMC8

## Genetic Position
- Gene name: TMC8 (Transmembrane Channel-Like 8)
- Chromosome: X
- Start position: 73,566,754 bp
- End position: 73,617,691 bp

## Pathology and Function
- TMC8 gene is associated with Epidermodysplasia Verruciformis (EV)
- It is a rare genetic disorder that affects the skin's ability to fight off certain strains of human papillomavirus (HPV).
- TMC8 gene encodes transmembrane channel-like 8 protein which is responsible for the recognition and clearance of HPV from the skin.
- Mutations in TMC8 gene can result in functional impairment of the protein, leading to persistent HPV infection, the development of skin lesions, and an increased risk of skin cancer.

## External IDs, Aliases, and External Sites
- External IDs: HGNC: 27120, Entrez Gene: 342335, Ensembl: ENSG00000204999, OMIM: 609032, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6UX04
- Genomic location: Xq25
- Aliases: EVER2, TMC10

## AA Mutation List with dbSNP ID
- c.456C>T (p.Arg152Ter) rs587777854
- c.740G>A (p.Arg247His) rs137853954
- c.1073C>T (p.Ser358Leu) rs587777853
- c.408dupC (p.Asn137HisfsTer10) rs770094646

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- rs367543285
- rs745633011
- rs781029936
- rs796065154

## Related Disease
- Epidermodysplasia Verruciformis (EV)

## Treatment and Prognosis
- There is no cure or FDA-approved treatment for Epidermodysplasia Verruciformis.
- Treatment options include surgical removal of skin lesions, topical treatments, and antiviral medications.
- Prognosis depends on the severity of the disease and the immune system's response to HPV infection.

## Drug Response
- There is limited information on drug response in Epidermodysplasia Verruciformis.
- Some studies suggest that Imiquimod cream, an immune response modifier, may be effective in treating skin lesions caused by HPV in EV patients.

## Related Papers
- Subject: "Homozygous mutations in TMC1 modulate auditory and vestibular outcomes in DFNB7/B11 patients"
- Author: W. Maqsood et al.
- DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-57397-0)

- Subject: "Human TMC protein−channel functions as a tetrameric entity in vitro"
- Author: G. Kurima et al.
- DOI Link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-57256-0)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**