---
title: "TLL1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "### Gene Information"
tags: ['TLL1', 'BMPsignaling', 'GeneticMutations', 'RelatedDiseases', 'TreatmentOptions', 'Prognosis', 'SNVs', 'InDels']
---

### Gene Information

**Gene symbol:** TLL1

**Gene name:** Tolloid like 1

**Genomic location:** Chromosome 4, 4q32.2 

**Aliases:** TLL, TLL-1, DKFZp781J0273, FLJ30320, KIAA2042

### Function 

The Tolloid-like 1 (TLL1) gene is a member of the astacin-like zinc-endopeptidase family and encodes for a protein that plays a crucial role in the regulation of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling pathway. TLL1 cleaves BMPs, which are involved in various developmental and physiological processes such as bone formation, embryogenesis, and tissue differentiation. 

### External IDs

- HGNC: 17776
- NCBI Entrez: 7094
- Ensembl: ENSG00000138697
- OMIM: 602304
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q9UBR2

### Mutations

**AA mutation list** 

There are multiple mutations reported in TLL1, which are cataloged in the dbSNP database.

|Mutation| Mutation type |dbSNP ID| 
|---|---|---|
|Gly362Arg | Missense | rs2072027 |
|Asn357Ser | Missense | rs4843538 |
|Asn111Ser | Missense | rs5743957 |

### Somatic SNVs/InDels

There are multiple somatic SNVs/InDels reported in the TLL1 gene, which are cataloged in the dbSNP database.

| Mutation | dbSNP ID |
|---|---|
| c.C192T | rs369636016 |
| c.G1290C | rs200824262 |
| c.G1328A | rs140461907 |

### Related Diseases

Mutations in TLL1 have been associated with several diseases. These are:

- Ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament of spine 
- Multiple synostoses syndrome, 1
- Klippel-Feil syndrome 3, autosomal dominant

### Treatment and Prognosis

Currently, there are no specific treatments available for genetic mutations in TLL1 gene. However, treatment is available to manage the symptoms associated with related diseases. The prognosis of these diseases varies depending on the severity and complications.

### Drug Response 

There is no information available on drug response related to TLL1 mutations.

### References

1. Sudo S, et al. Tolloid-like protein cleaves complex of bone morphogenetic protein and its prodomain and regulates BMP-induced signalling. Nat Cell Biol. 2004;6:515-521.
2. OMIM database: [Click](https://www.omim.org/)
3. NCBI Gene database: [Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/)
4. UniProt database: [Click](https://www.uniprot.org/)
5. Deciphering Developmental Disorders Study. Prevalence and architecture of de novo mutations in developmental disorders. Nature. 2017;542(7642):433-438.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**