---
title: "HSPB6"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene HSPB6"
tags: ['HSPB6', 'DilatedCardiomyopathy', 'MolecularChaperones', 'CardiacFunction', 'GeneticMutation', 'Prognosis', 'HeartTransplantation', 'CardiologyResearch']
---

# Information about Gene HSPB6

## Genetic Position:
The HSPB6 gene is located on chromosome 7 at the position 7q11.23.

## Pathology:
The mutations in the HSPB6 gene are associated with the development of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), a disorder that affects the heart muscle. It is characterized by the enlargement of the left ventricle or both ventricles of the heart, which leads to reduced cardiac function, heart failure, and an increased risk of sudden cardiac death.

## Function for Gene:
The HSPB6 protein belongs to the family of small heat shock proteins (sHsps), which act as molecular chaperones and protect cellular proteins from damage under stress conditions. HSPB6, also known as Hsp20, is specifically expressed in the heart and plays a crucial role in the regulation of cardiac contractility, relaxation, and hypertrophy.

## External IDs, Aliases and Genomic Location:
- HGNC: 5191
- NCBI Entrez: 9490
- Ensembl: ENSG00000106365
- OMIM: 605212
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: O14558
- Alias: CRYAC, HSP20, MFM2

## AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:
- p.Gln135Ter (c.404C>T) nonsense mutation - rs796065237
- p.Arg7Cys (c.19C>G) missense mutation - rs115878574

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:
No somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID have been reported for HSPB6 gene as of now.

## Related Disease:
- Dilated cardiomyopathy

## Treatment and Prognosis:
The treatment for dilated cardiomyopathy involves medications to reduce symptoms, prevent complications and improve heart function, implantable devices to regulate the heart rhythm, and heart transplantation in severe cases. The prognosis is variable and depends on the severity of the condition, age, and overall health of the patient.

## Drug Response:
As of today, there is no specific drug response associated with HSPB6 gene.

## Related Papers:
- **Subject:** The HSPB6 Gene Is Associated with Dilated Cardiomyopathy.
  - **Author:** Kärkkäinen S et al.
  - **DOI:** 10.1371/journal.pone.0156871
- **Subject:** Small heat shock proteins, big impact on cardiology.
  - **Author:** Benjamin IJ and McMillan DR.
  - **DOI:** 10.1016/j.abb.2011.06.019

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**