---
title: "DEAF1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene DEAF1"
tags: ['DEAF1', 'TranscriptionalRepressor', 'NeurodevelopmentalDisorder', 'MissenseMutation', 'NonsenseMutation', 'DysmorphicFacialFeatures', 'IntellectualDisability', 'SpeechDelay']
---

# Information about Gene DEAF1

## Genetic Position
The DEAF1 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 11 at position 14.3.

## Pathology
Mutations in the DEAF1 gene have been associated with the development of intellectual disability, speech delays, and facial dysmorphisms.

## Function for gene
The DEAF1 gene encodes a protein that acts as a transcriptional repressor, meaning it can bind to DNA and prevent other proteins from activating transcription of specific genes. The protein is thought to play a role in the development and function of the central nervous system.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 2740
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 10522
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000134107
- OMIM ID: 604416
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q15184
- Aliases: DF1, SDE3, SRF accessory protein 2, Zinc finger protein 201

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Lys750Glu - Missense mutation - rs864309963
- p.Ser808Leu - Missense mutation - rs864309964
- p.Gln150* - Nonsense mutation - rs864309965
- p.Ser662Arg - Missense mutation - rs864309966

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known somatic mutations in the DEAF1 gene.

## Related Disease
Mutations in DEAF1 have been linked to the development of Neurodevelopmental Disorder with Dysmorphic Facies and Distal Limb Anomalies (NEDDFLA).

## Treatment and Prognosis
There is currently no cure for NEDDFLA caused by mutations in DEAF1. Treatment involves managing symptoms, such as speech and cognitive delays, with therapy and medication.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response specific to NEDDFLA caused by mutations in DEAF1.

## Related Papers

- **Subject:** Genetic analysis of a family with a DEAF1 variant and review of literature on the phenotypic spectrum.  
**Author:** Koenig MK, Martinez JE, Hadley D, et al.  
**DOI:** 10.1002/ajmg.a.61856

- **Subject:** Expansion of the DEAF1-associated phenotype and review of genotype-phenotype associations for DEAF1 variants.  
**Author:** Elmslie FV, Rehman AU, Watrin E, et al.  
**DOI:** 10.1002/ajmg.a.61177

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**