---
title: "OR1P1"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene OR1P1"
tags: ['GeneOR1P1', 'OlfactoryReceptor', 'Aldehydes', 'Odorants', 'GeneticInformation', 'Function', 'Aliases', 'RelatedPapers']
---

# Information about Gene OR1P1

## Genetic position 
- Chromosome: 1
- Location: 1p36.33

## Pathology
- Currently OR1P1 is not reported to be associated with any specific pathology.

## Function
- OR1P1 is a member of the olfactory receptor (OR) gene family. These receptors are responsible for detection of odorants. OR1P1 specifically functions to detect aldehydes with various chain lengths.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 14675
- NCBI Gene ID: 124460
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000226005
- OMIM ID: -
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: -

### Aliases:
- Olfactory receptor 1P1
- olfactory receptor, family 1, subfamily P, member 1

## AA Mutation list and types with dbSNP ID
- Currently there are no known amino acid mutations reported for the OR1P1 gene.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
- Currently there are no known somatic SNVs/InDels reported for the OR1P1 gene.

## Related Disease
- Currently there are no specific diseases reported to be associated with the OR1P1 gene.

## Treatment and Prognosis
- Currently there are no specific treatments or prognoses mentioned for the OR1P1 gene.

## Drug response
- Currently there are no specific drugs or treatment approaches reported to be associated with the OR1P1 gene.

## Related Papers
- Name of the paper, [Click](https://doi.org/XXXXX,) Author's name
- Name of the paper, [Click](https://doi.org/XXXXX,) Author's name

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**