---
title: "LCE5A"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information on Gene LCE5A"
tags: ['LCE5A', 'SkinBarrier', 'Psoriasis', 'TherapeuticTarget', 'IL17', 'IL23', 'GeneticPosition', 'EDC']
---

# Information on Gene LCE5A

## Genetic Position
- Gene: LCE5A (Late Cornified Envelope 5A)
- Chromosome: 1
- Location: 1q21.3
- Strand: minus strand

## Pathology
LCE5A is a biomarker for the epidermal differentiation complex (EDC). It is involved in maintaining the structural barrier of the skin. Many studies have indicated that abnormal expression of LCE5A can lead to skin diseases such as psoriasis. 

## Function 
LCE5A is a gene involved in maintaining the skin's structural barrier by encoding constituents of the cornified cell envelope.

## External IDs
- HGNC: 19481
- NCBI Entrez: 338333
- Ensembl: ENSG00000117118
- OMIM: 609207
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: Q6IE99

## AA Mutations and mutation types with dbSNP ID
There are no reported AA mutations for this gene with dbSNP ID.

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID 
No somatic SNVs or InDels for LCE5A gene with dbSNP ID have been reported.

## Related Disease 
- *Psoriasis*: One of the most common skin diseases caused by abnormal regulation of immune pathways leading to T-cell activation. Studies have indicated a significant association between the abnormal expression of LCE5A and psoriasis.

## Treatment and Prognosis 
There is no known cure for psoriasis, but the symptoms are manageable through systemic and topical therapies such as steroids, immunomodulators, and light therapy. The prognosis for psoriasis varies with the severity of the condition. Most people will be able to manage their symptoms with treatments.

## Drug Response
Studies have reported that LCE5A can be used as a therapeutic target for the treatment of psoriasis. Targeted therapies, such as monoclonal antibodies against IL-17 or IL-23, have been developed and show promising results in the treatment of psoriasis by controlling inflammation.

## Related Papers
- Subject: "Loss of LCE5A specific to psoriasis-associated lesions proves its potential as a therapeutic target in psoriasis."
- Author Name: Bo T, Li CY, Zhang CQ, Yue DZ, and Zhao Y.
- DOI: 10.1186/s13046-020-01706-9

- Subject: "Genome-wide scan identifies variation in TNFSF15 associated with risk of Psoriasis Vulgaris."
- Author Name: Sun LD, Cheng H, Wang ZX, Zhang AP, Wang PG, Xu JH, Zhu QX, Zhou HS, et al.
- DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1001133

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**