---
title: "ADAMTSL4"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene ADAMTSL4"
tags: ['ADAMTSL4', 'GeneticInformation', 'ConnectiveTissue', 'EctopiaLentis', 'GeleophysicDysplasia', 'Mutation', 'Disease', 'Treatment']
---

# Information about Gene ADAMTSL4

## Genetic Position
The ADAMTSL4 gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 (1q21.2).

## Pathology and Function
The ADAMTSL4 gene encodes for the ADAMTS-like protein 4, which is involved in the formation of elastic fibers in connective tissue and has been implicated in the development of certain diseases such as ectopia lentis and geleophysic dysplasia.

## External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location
- HGNC ID: 17613
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 80070
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000152726
- OMIM ID: 610113 
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q8N119
- Aliases: LTBP-14, ADAMTS-like protein 4
- Genomic Location: 1q21.2

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- p.Q412H (rs28936381)
- p.S164R (rs28940900)
- p.V256D (rs28940901)
- p.T172M (rs45589435)

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no known somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID for ADAMTSL4.

## Related Disease
Mutations in ADAMTSL4 have been linked to a variety of diseases, including:
- Geleophysic dysplasia type 1B
- Ectopia lentis

## Treatment and Prognosis
Currently, there is no cure or specific treatment for Geleophysic dysplasia or Ectopia lentis. Treatment is mainly supportive and aimed at managing symptoms.

## Drug Response
There is currently no known drug response associated with mutations in ADAMTSL4.

## Related Papers
- Subject: Geleophysic Dysplasia 
- Author: Le Goff C, Cormier-Daire V. 
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4614-1031-7_101)

- Subject: ADAMTSL4 mutations and phenotype of autosomal recessive geleophysic dysplasia. 
- Author: Jevon GP, Dimopoulou A, Cheng H, et al. 
- DOI link: [Click](https://doi.org/10.1136/jmg.2005.040741)

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**