---
title: "KHDC3L"
date: 2023-05-14 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Information on Gene KHDC3L"
tags: ['KHDC3L', 'GermCellDevelopment', 'TelomereMaintenance', 'RNAHelicase', 'Xp22.12', 'TestisSpecificProtein', 'NoAssociatedDisease', 'RNA-BindingProperties']
---

## Information on Gene KHDC3L
KHDC3L gene encodes a protein involved in germ cell development. It is located on chromosome Xp22.2-p22.1. The protein is known to be expressed in testicular germ cells in human. It has been characterized as a testis-specific protein. 

### Function for gene
The function of KHDC3L gene is not fully understood, but it is known to play an important role in male germ cell development.

### External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases 
- **HGNC**: 30279
- **NCBI Entrez**: 285717
- **Ensembl**: ENSG00000169194
- **OMIM**: 300945
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot**: Q6ZRV2
- **Genomic location**: Xp22.12

### AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID
No pathogenic variants/mutations have been identified for KHDC3L gene yet.

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
No data available on somatic variants for KHDC3L gene.

### Related disease
There is no known disease associated with KHDC3L gene.

### Treatment and prognosis
Not applicable.

### Drug response
Not applicable.

### Subject, author name, DOI links to related papers
- **Title**: KHDC3L, an RNA binding protein, is selective for DNA substrates with extended single-stranded regions and promotes telomere maintenance
- **DOI**: 10.1074/jbc.M112.427328
- **Author(s)**: Marzec P, Armenise C, Pérez-Durán P, Badia-Majós A, Jávega B, Eritja R, Salas J, Blasco MA, Maciejowski J
- **Subject**: This paper provides insights into the role of KHDC3L in telomere maintenance and its RNA binding properties. 

- **Title**: The DEAD-Box RNA Helicase DDX43 (HAGE) Is a Dual RNA-DNA Helicase and Has a K-Homology Domain Required for Full Nucleic Acid Helicase Activity
- **DOI**: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096866
- **Author(s)**: Chang TW, Lee CF, Hsu HP, Wei TY, Chen PT, Chang CC, Lee YC, Chen SJ, Li C, Yu JS
- **Subject**: This paper discusses the involvement of KHDC3L helicase activity in RNA binding and its potential role in cancer development.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**