---
title: "PPOX"
date: 2023-05-15 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene PPOX"
tags: ['PPOX', 'Porphyrias', 'HemeBiosynthesis', 'GeneticDisorders', 'SymptomManagement', 'DrugInteractions', 'MedicalTreatment', 'GeneticMutation']
---

# Information about Gene PPOX
## Genetic Position
The PPOX gene (protoporphyrinogen oxidase) is located on the long arm of chromosome 1 (1q22-q23) and spans 26.1 kb of genomic DNA. 

## Pathology and Function
The PPOX gene encodes the protoporphyrinogen oxidase enzyme that catalyzes the sixth step of the heme biosynthesis pathway, responsible for the conversion of protoporphyrinogen IX to protoporphyrin IX. Mutations in the PPOX gene can result in various porphyrias, a group of genetic disorders characterized by defects in heme metabolism. The most common porphyrias associated with PPOX mutations are variegate porphyria (VP) and hereditary coproporphyria (HCP). These porphyrias are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern and can manifest with symptoms such as skin sensitivity to sunlight, abdominal pain, and neurological manifestations.

## External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: HGNC:9273
- NCBI Entrez ID: 5498
- Ensembl ID: ENSG00000117400
- OMIM ID: 600923
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: P50336
- Alternate gene names: Protoporphyrinogen oxidase; Coproporphyrinogenase; Protox

## AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
- c.470T>C (p.Leu157Pro) - rs121918127
- c.851A>G (p.Tyr284Cys) - rs121918128
- c.908G>A (p.Arg303His) - rs121918129
- c.1153A>T (p.Asn385Tyr) - rs121918130

## Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
There are currently no reported somatic SNVs/InDels with a dbSNP ID for the PPOX gene.

## Related Disease
PPOX mutations have been associated with various types of porphyrias, including variegate porphyria and hereditary coproporphyria.

## Treatment and Prognosis
Porphyrias are a group of disorders that do not have a cure. However, medications and lifestyle changes can help manage symptoms, such as avoiding triggers that exacerbate symptoms and taking medications to help alleviate pain. In severe cases, hospitalization and intravenous heme therapy may be necessary.

## Drug Response
Some medications, such as barbiturates and sulfonamides, can exacerbate symptoms in individuals with porphyria. Therefore, it is important to consult with a healthcare professional prior to taking any medication.

## Related Papers
- Author Name: Puy H, Gouya L, Deybach JC
  - Title: Porphyrias
  - DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-444-53726-1.00028-4
- Author Name: To-Figueras J, Ducamp S, Clayton J
  - Title: Bad to the bone: on type II (acute) porphyria as a bone disease
  - DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-57344-7

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**