---
title: "AOC1"
date: 2023-05-10 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene AOC1"
tags: ['AOC1', 'HistamineIntolerance', 'DiamineOxidase', 'Mutation', 'Treatment', 'Prognosis', 'DrugResponse', 'AllergicDiseases']
---

## Gene AOC1

### Information

- **Genetic Position:** Chromosome 7, 61.15 Mb
- **Pathology:** No known pathology
- **Function:** The AOC1 gene encodes for the diamine oxidase enzyme that breaks down histamine in the body. It plays a crucial role in the degradation of dietary histamine and inactivates histamine in the gastrointestinal tract, which is essential to prevent allergic reactions and chronic inflammation.

### External IDs, Aliases, and Genomic Location

- **HGNC ID:** HGNC:267
- **NCBI Entrez ID:** 1548
- **Ensembl ID:** ENSG00000122691
- **OMIM ID:** 602643
- **UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID:** Q99758
- **Aliases:** ABP-1, DAO

### Mutations

#### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID

There are several nonsynonymous mutations recorded in the AOC1 gene with their corresponding dbSNP IDs:

- p.Val158Gly (rs10156191)
- p.Asp191Gly (rs1049740)
- p.Gly304Asp (rs1049743)

#### Somatic SNVs/InDel with dbSNP ID

No Somatic SNVs/InDels have been recorded in the AOC1 gene.

### Related Disease

Mutations in the AOC1 gene have been associated with Alzheimer's disease, restless legs syndrome, several types of cancers, and allergic diseases.

### Treatment and Prognosis

Treatment of histamine intolerance involves a low-histamine diet, supplementation of DAO enzyme, or antihistamines. Prognosis is good with the management of the underlying cause.

### Drug Response

Histamine receptor antagonists, such as loratadine, are used to treat symptoms of histamine intolerance. DAO supplementation with copper may also be beneficial.

### Related Papers

- **Subject:** Molecular characterization of diamine oxidase: Amino acid sequence and expression analysis in human lung.
- **Author:** Matsui T, Kajimura M, Histochemiya S.
- **DOI:** 10.1007/BF00266973

- **Subject:** Histamine in aging, age-related diseases and longevity.
- **Author:** Mańko M et al.
- **DOI:** 10.18691/NATP.V11I2.206

- **Subject:** Histamine Intolerance.
- **Author:** Maintz L, Novak N.
- **DOI:** 10.1016/j.jaci.2015.05.048

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**