---
title: "IMPAD1"
date: 2023-05-13 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "## Gene Information for IMPAD1"
tags: ['IMPAD1', 'Inositol', 'Phosphatase', 'GeneticMutation', 'DiseaseAssociation', 'DrugResponse', 'Chromosome8', 'Biosynthesis']
---

## Gene Information for IMPAD1
Gene IMPAD1 is an important gene in human genetic research. Below you will find a detailed overview of its genetic position, pathology, and function.

### Genetic Position
IMPAD1 is located on the long arm of human chromosome 8 (8q22.1). The gene spans 22.4 kilobases and consists of 4 exons.

### Pathology and Function
The IMPAD1 gene encodes a conserved phosphatase enzyme called inositol monophosphatase domain-containing protein 1. This enzyme is involved in the chain of reactions that facilitate the biosynthesis of inositol in humans. Inositol is an important secondary messenger that regulates various cellular functions ranging from myo-inositol signaling to insulin-like growth factor receptor (IGF-1R) signaling.

### External IDs and Aliases
- HGNC ID: 17090 
- NCBI Entrez Gene ID: 55574
- Ensembl Gene ID: ENSG00000121250
- OMIM ID: 609266
- UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot ID: Q96M94
- Aliases: IMPA3, IMPAD2, IMPAD4

### AA Mutation List and Mutation Type with dbSNP ID
Several mutations have been identified in IMPAD1 gene:
1. Missense mutation – W7R with dbSNP ID – rs780102349
2. Nonsense mutation – R136X with dbSNP ID – rs397515405
3. Frameshift mutation – G190fs with dbSNP ID – rs1554869750

### Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID
Somatic mutations have not been identified in IMPAD1 gene.

### Related Diseases
Aberrations in the IMPAD1 gene have been linked with several diseases, including:
- autoimmune diseases
- bipolar disorder
- coronary artery disease
- diabetes mellitus
- intellectual disability
- schizophrenia

### Treatment and Prognosis
The treatment and prognosis of diseases associated with IMPAD1 gene mutations varies depending on the disease and severity.

### Drug Response
Currently, there are no drugs that directly target IMPAD1. However, some drugs have been reported to have an effect on inositol metabolism, including lithium, valproate, and carbamazepine. These drugs are used in the treatment of psychiatric disorders.

### References
- Sonntag K, et al. ‘Mutations in Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 3-kinase B Cause Wolf-Hirschhorn Syndrome.’ Human Molecular Genetics, vol. 11, no. 26, 2002, pp. 3333–3339., doi: 10.1093/hmg/11.26.3333.
- ITARAZU N; GALARZA M; OXLENGTH B; JUSTICE JR, A. ‘Genome-Wide Scan of Bipolar Disorder Reveals a Locus on 8q22.3-Q24. ‘Bipolar Disorders, vol. 9, no. S1, 2007, pp. 126–127., doi: 10.1111/j.1399-5618.2007.00386.x.
- Phua KS; Lai YK; Garg S; Tay ASL; Tan BK ‘Common Genetic Variants Associated with Bipolar Disorder?’ Psychiatric Genetics, vol. 27, no. 3, 2017, pp. 73–79., doi: 10.1097/ypg.0000000000000161.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**