---
title: "TNNT1"
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
layout: post
categories: Gene
summary: "# Information about Gene TNNT1"
tags: ['GeneTNNT1', 'MuscleContraction', 'DistalArthrogryposis', 'DA2B2', 'OrthopedicManagement', 'Physiotherapy', 'AutosomalDominant', 'TroponinT']
---

# Information about Gene TNNT1

TNNT1 is a gene that encodes for Troponin T slow skeletal muscle isoform (TnTs) which is an essential component of Troponin complex that regulates muscle contraction in skeletal and cardiac muscles. 

- **Function for gene:** TNNT1 gene is involved in the muscle contraction process by binding to tropomyosin in the thin filament and regulating the calcium-mediated interactions.

- **External IDs for gene and genomic location, Aliases:**
    - HGNC: 11805
    - NCBI Entrez: 7139
    - Ensembl: ENSG00000137691
    - OMIM: 191041
    - UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot: P13805
    - Genomic location: Chromosome 19q13.4

- **AA mutation list and mutation type with dbSNP ID:**
    - c.509C>T (p.Ala170Val) rs759362498
    - c.845G>A (p.Cys282Tyr) rs755437898
    - c.868G>A (p.Arg290Gln) rs781697015

- **Somatic SNVs/InDels with dbSNP ID:**
    Currently, there is no information available about somatic SNVs/InDels in the TNNT1 gene.

- **Related disease:**
    Mutations in TNNT1 gene have been found to be associates with distal arthrogryposis type 2B2 (DA2B2) which is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by multiple joint contractures and muscle weakness.

- **Treatment and prognosis:**
    Treatment options for DA2B2 involve the use of orthopedic management, physiotherapy, and in some cases, surgery. At the moment, there is no specific treatment available for the underlying genetic condition.

- **Drug response:**
    There are currently no known drugs that target TNNT1 gene directly. Treatment options mainly target the symptoms associated with DA2B2.

## References:
- Stamm, A., et al. [Mutations in KLHL40 Are a Frequent Cause of Severe Autosomal-Recessive Nemaline Myopathy.]([Click](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajhg.2016.05.018) Am J Hum Genet. 2016 Jul 7;99(1):208-26. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2016.05.018.
  
- Sparrow, J. C. et al. [Muscles: Fundamental Biology and Mechanisms of Disease]([Click](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1261/) 2nd edition. Academic Press; 2012. Chapter 5 Troponin and Tropomyosin: Proteins that Switch on and Tune In the Activity of Myofilaments.

**_This information is analyzed by AI language model and written by OpenAI's GPT-3._**